Inglewood-South Bay Branch

National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)
P.O. Box 8162, Inglewood, CA, 90301

Telephone: (310) 671-3174

Fax: (562) 924-6044

7 May 2019

Senator John Liu

188 State Street

Legislative Office Bldg., Room 802
Albany, NY 12247

Re: New York Assembly Bill 6587, 12 March 2019
Prohibition of the Administration of Electroshock Therapy

Dear Senator Liu,

As the executive director of the Inglewood-South Bay branch of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), who has worked other NAACP branches, including in
New York, | am writing in support of Assembly Bill 6587 which prohibits physicians administering
electroshock treatment, also known as electroconvulsive therapy and ECT.

In 2017, the national assembly of the NAACP unanimously passed a resolution that
supported a “ban on the use of ECT in the treatment of children and young adults up to the age of
21, and the indiscriminate use on adults.” | am enclosing a copy for your reference (Tab 1).

Since then, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has continued to fail to ensure that
ECT device manufacturers conduct clinical trials proving safety and efficacy of the device. As
such, we need to turn to state legislatures to remedy this lack of safety by prohibiting the use of

ECT.

And for good reason: A pathologist in one inquest said that that the seizure from ECT
caused irreparable brain damage.1 In another, a coroner determined that involuntary ECT didn’t
prevent but /ed to a patient’s suicide. ? In October, 2018, a California court said that a reasonable
jury could find patients suffered brain damage as a result of ECT. The ECT device manufacturer
settled the case, avoiding trial, and posted a warning online of the potential for “permanent brain
damage” from its device.

Several ECT lawsuits alleging brain damage, memory loss or wrongful death have resulted
in compensation of $1.35 million.

Criminal penalties for administering a damaging treatment also have precedent. In
Australia, a drug and electroshock practice called Deep Brain Stimulation was banned in 1983
after it killed 48 people, with criminal penalties enacted if administered. This was necessary
because of the complacency of psychiatrists and doctors in allowing this practice to continue for
20 years—sometimes to children as young as 8. West Australian law has a penalty of two years

Scanned with CamScanner
RY NEW YORK MENTAL HEALTH
COUNSELORS ASSOCIATION
MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT

NYMHCA

A7607 - Benedetto - Establishes a New York State Model Wellness Policy and a school district wellness
policy database.

The New York Mental Health Counselor’s Association supports A7607 by Assembly member Benedetto that would
support the health and well-being of all New York State students by establishing a model wellness policy.

The legislation requires that the New York State Education Department seek the comments and inputs of
stakeholders from a variety of wellness disciplines - such as - parents, students, educators and mental health

professionals in the development of a model wellness policy.

The time is right to develop comprehensive policies that address NEED FOR MENTAL HEALTH
the many areas of student wellness. The challenges facing New SERVICES

York State’s students are daunting: almost one in three New York

children are overweight or obese, while one in six struggle with © 1/2 of all chronic mental health
hunger. One out of every five youth experience serious mental conditions begin by age 14,

illness in a given year. Our young people are New York’s future, yet

New York ranks near the bottom in comprehensive policies to © 1/2 of all lifetime cases of anxiety
address our students’ physical, mental, and emotional well-being. disorders begin at age 11

New York students need support and resources to overcome these

obstacles — and their school districts need help from our state © 22% of youth aged 13- 18 experience a
government. serious mental disorders in a given year
Since 2006, all school districts participating in the National School “Dats fram MAR ee wnwemyhanyscore

Lunch or Breakfast Program are federally required to establish and
implement wellness policies. The majority of school districts in New York have a wellness policy, but these policies
normally focus on nutrition issues solely. However, educators know that a healthy school climate promotes a
healthy overall school environment and healthier children and get the whole school community involved - school
administrators, teachers, staff, parents, and students. Healthier students are better learners, perform better in
school, concentrate for longer periods of time, and have lower rates of absenteeism. In this effort, NYMHCA also
appreciates the need to allow schools districts to uniquely adapt policies to their particular communities’ needs,
especially as it relates to mental health services.

For the above reasons, NYMHCA supports this legislation.

NYMHCA is the advocacy organization representing the clinical mental health counselors of New York State. NYMHCA is the
state branch of the American Mental Health Counselors Association. Mental health counselors are licensed in New York via the
Office of the Professions in the NYS Education Department. There are over 6,800 LMHCs in NYS. Licensed mental health
counselors use assessment instruments; provide mental health counseling and psychotherapy, clinical assessment and
evaluation, treatment planning and case management, prevention, discharge, and aftercare services. For more information
regarding NYMHCA contact Heather Evans at Hinman Straub Advisors at hevans@hinmanstraub.com or 518-436-0751.

Scanned with CamScanner
Points of Contact:

KN Paul Zuber
i > Paul@asagovtaffairs.com

Firemen’s Association of
the State of New York Jill Scalzo

Jill@asagovtaffairs.com
518-813-4832

MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT

A.8206

Assembly Member Gunther

Relates to owner liability for failure of operator to move over when approaching a police, fire, or
emergency vehicle

On behalf of nearly 90,000 volunteer firefighters, the Firemen’s Association of the State of New
York urges you to support A.8206, which would create a better enforcement mechanism for the
Move Over Law and help to keep our highways safer for first responders.

FASNY believes the safety of those stopped on the roadside is of the utmost importance and can
be better secured through increased enforcement of the Move Over Law. At present, potential
violators do not feel the need to give space and slow down, as they know the trooper on the
roadside will likely not get back in vehicle and issue a violation. This mindset is even more
prevalent when a potential violator sees non-police emergency vehicle on the roadside. With the
frequency police officers (the subsect most likely to have a driver “move over” as they can issue
tickets) are getting struck around the country due to driver failure to comply with this law, it is
clear this is a larger issue than just having a certain color light on one’s respective emergency
vehicle. We see tragic cases in which police and emergency responders are needlessly killed by a
motorist who is not following the law.

The statistics show, as does our experience, that there is a tremendous safety risk at present to
those responding to the side of the road — the numbers speak for themselves. The rates of
violations, as well as roadside accidents, are not declining anymore after their initial decrease
upon implementation of the law in 2011. Accidents involving these first responders have become
steady occurrences in the news cycle. Technology that can effectively issue warnings or tickets
in real time when a motorist does not move over or slow down is available — and being used in
other areas to reduce rates of violation. It is past time to implement every tool in our collective
arsenal to avoid further death and destruction.

The Move Over Law was a worthy and celebrated public policy initiative, and FASNY feels a
demonstration program using a move over monitoring system mounted on not just state police
vehicles, but also the option to operate on any police, fire or emergency vehicle is the logical
next step to increase enforcement and begin actually saving the lives of those doing jobs that
help others in their time of need.

Scanned with CamScanner
SIVE, PAGET &4§ RIESEL P.C.

Steven Barshoy
Direct: 646-378-7229

sbarshov@sprlaw.com
June 17, 2019

Memorandum in Opposition to A8410, Which Proposes

an Unconstitutional Retroactive Moratorium on Village Incorporations

Sive, Paget & Riesel P.C. (“SPR”) represents the Petitioners who have proposed the
incorporation of the Village of Seven Springs (“Seven Springs”) in the Town of Monroe, Orange
County. On behalf of the Petitioners, SPR urges all State Assemblymembers to vote against
A8410 (Abinanti) (the “Bill”.

The Bill is the third attempt in the State Assembly this session to halt village
incorporations and deprive citizens of the right to local self-determination -- see A7997 (Thiele)
and A8411 (Abinanti), which is nearly identical to the Bill except that it suspends village
incorporations absolutely, without requiring a town board vote. Although the Bill is drafted to
make it appear as if its main purpose is to study incorporation of villages in New York, those
provisions are a subterfuge for the Bill’s real goal -- to impose a two-year retroactive moratorium
on village incorporation and thereby block the proposed incorporation of the Village of Seven
Springs, as well as the proposed incorporations of the Villages of Edgemont and East Quogue.

There is No Emergency to Justify the Extraordinary
Imposition of a Moratorium on Village Incorporations

Throughout New York State’s history, the State Legislature has very rarely imposed a
moratorium and only in the most serious of emergencies. To protect underground water
supplies, the State Legislature imposed a temporary state-wide ban on hydrofracking. Another
example was in the 1970s when New York City was in imminent danger of defaulting on its
short-term debt. A third example was during the Great Depression when the State Legislature
limited mortgage foreclosures: There is no crisis facing New York State involving village
incorporations, and the Bill would set a terrible precedent of enacting a retroactive moratorium
when there is no emergency of any kind to justify such an extraordinary exercise of legislative
power.. The Bill contains no findings of any emergency warranting imposition of a retroactive
moratorium and the deprivation of citizens’ right to vote on the formation of their own village.

The Retroactive Moratorium on Village
Incorporations Violates the New York Constitution

The retroactive moratorium is not only entirely unjustified but also unconstitutional. The
moratorium is retroactive to January 1, 2019 and specifically crafted to halt incorporation of
three proposed villages: Seven Springs, Edgemont and East Quogue. That is the only reason for
the retroactive moratorium. Singling out these three proposed incorporations violates N.Y.
Const. Art. III, § 17; which prohibits the state legislature from enacting special or local laws
relating to village incorporation:

560 LEXINGTON AVENUE * NEW YORK, NEW YORK « 10022 = 212.421.2150 = WWW.SPRLAW.COM

Scanned with CamScanner
END AIDS. LIVE LIFE.

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

A54A (Buchwald) / S45 (Hoylman)

AN ACT that creates a process for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ)
veterans who were discharged from the military less than honorably due to gender identity or
sexual orientation to apply to receive restored New York State veterans’ benefits.

Gay Men’s Health Crisis (GMHC), the world’s first and leading provider of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and advocacy strongly supports A5S4A (Buchwald) / S45 (Hoylman), a bill that
creates a process for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) veterans who were
dishonorably discharged to receive veterans’ benefits.

GMHC has served LGBTQ individuals since it’s founding, including those who have loyally
served in the military. This has not been without great difficulty. Before the repeal of “Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell” in 2011, approximately1 14,000 military members were discharged due to their
sexual orientation. Despite the repeal of this policy, the process for a veteran to have this status
removed can take up to 18 months for this to occur. This has caused serious financial, mental
health and physiological burden to LGBTQ veterans who have been unable to receive support
after being discharged due to their sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. According to
a “review of state laws by Senator Brad Hoylman’s office, more than 50 state programs, benefits
and tax breaks for veterans are dependent upon their discharge status.” The homophobic policy
of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell cost many veterans in New York government jobs, healthcare services
through Veteran Affairs, property tax breaks, and several other necessary support programs or
services.

No veteran should serve their country only to then be discriminated against because of their
sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression. It takes brave patriots to defend and
represent their country. By passing the Restoration of Honor act, we can begin to heal the trauma
that many veterans have experienced. Please join us in honoring LGBTQ veterans by ensuring
that they are taken care of by this state in return for their service.

GMHC strongly supports and recommends passage of the A54A (Buchwald) / S45 (Hoylman).
We urge you to co-sponsor this legislation and thank you for your solidarity.

307 West 38" Street, New York, NY 10018 (212) 367 -1000 gmhc.org
Visit the David Geffen Center for HIV Prevention and Health Education: 224 West 29" Street, New York, NY 10001

Scanned with CamScanner
END AIDS. LIVE LIFE.

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

A1266 (Bronson) / S49 (Hoylman)

An ACT that establishes a state directory of LGBT, veteran and disabled owned businesses, and
directs the state to establish a goal for statewide participation in state contracts by these
businesses, in addition to a plan for promoting these businesses to state agencies.

Gay Men’s Health Crisis (GMHC), the world’s first and leading provider of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and advocacy strongly supports A1266 (Bronson) / S49 (Hoylman); a bill that
would create a directory of people who own businesses and are LGBT, veterans or live with
disabilities.

As an organization that provides services to the LGBT community, GMHC supports legislation
that would allow LGBT communities to gain economically. The bill represents the city’s first
foray into an effort to boost LGBTQ-owned businesses on the heels of similar, but more
established existing programs that already help minority and women-owned businesses.
Research has found that gainful employment is a protective factor for people living with
HIV/AIDS and allows our clients to access the appropriate medical and mental health care they
need. In addition, according to the Small Business Association, “certified LGBT-owned
businesses realize an average of $2.5 million in revenue a year, almost triple the average revenue
of other small businesses.” For LGBT citizens of New York, this inclusive policy provides fair
and equal access to contracting opportunities and economic development programs that drive
innovation, create jobs, and promote economic growth throughout the region.

Due to the amount of discrimination that LGBT individuals experience in the workplace, this bill
would work to increase the number of workplaces where LGBT people could work. In addition,
passing this bill “would make New York City the largest municipality in the United States to
intentionally include LGBT-owned businesses in municipal contracting and economic .
development opportunities”.

GMHC strongly supports and recommends passage of the A1266 (Bronson) / S49 (Hoylman).
We urge you to co-sponsor this legislation and thank you for your solidarity.

307 West 38" Street, New York, NY 10018 (212) 367 -1000 gmhc.org
Visit the David Geffen Center for HIV Prevention and Health Education: 224 West 29"" Street, New York, NY 10001

Scanned with CamScanner
SENATE HEALTH COMMITTEE — May 21, 2019

Mee SUPPORTS 44

ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVOCATES OF NEW YORK Key to Legislative Ratings: 444 Major Benefit £4 cubstantiatBeneft 4 Beneficial
Tackling Lead Poisoning
S.499-B (Rivera, et al.)
A.7687 (Peoples-Stokes)
Explanation

Too many children in New York are still poisoned by lead, a dangerous neurotoxin. This
legislation utilizes numerous tools to reduce lead exposure, including the enshrinement of new
lead-safe standards for rental properties, as well as requiring annual blood lead screenings for
children up until 6 years of age (New York currently only requires screening at age | and 2).

New York State recently revised its definition of ‘elevated blood lead level’ to 5 micrograms per
deciliter (ug/dl), aligning with the level of concern set by the Center for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). This bill builds on that accomplishment in multiple ways. First, landlords will
be obligated to eliminate lead-based paint and potentially other sources of exposure in their
rental properties, ensuring that the necessary steps are taken to protect the health of tenants.

Second, by requiring annual blood lead screenings for children up until 6 years of age, this
legislation provides critical protections for families, especially those who move to a lead-unsafe
rental property with a child over the age of 2. Extended monitoring ensures that if the child is
exposed to elevated levels of lead, an inspection of the family’s home is triggered and the source
of lead is eliminated.

No amount of lead is considered safe in the human body or brain. The growing bodies and
developing organs of children are especially vulnerable to lead exposure. Even low levels of lead
in children can cause neurological damage, impaired hearing, slowed growth, and anemia.

According to the New York State Children’s Environmental Health Centers, more than 2,200
children in New York are affected by lead poisoning each year. This bill is crucial to combat the
negative effects of lead poisoning.

Summary

This bill amends Section 1370-a and 1373 of the Public Health Law; adds Section 1370-f of the
Public Health Law; amends Section 3216, 3221 and 4303 of the Insurance Law; amends Section
365-a of the Social Services Law; amends Section 14 of the Public Housing Law; and amends
Section 383 of the Executive Law to expand testing for lead in drinking water to certain day care
facilities.

Environmental Advocates of New York supports this bill.

Memo #41
353 Hamilton Street, Albany, New York 12210 - Tel 518.462.5526 + Fax 518.427.0381 - www.eany.org

Printed on 100% post-consumer recycled paper.

Scanned with CamScanner
VA ORK ESSE

Coalition Letter in Opposition to S.501-B (Kaminsky) / A.6296-A (Englebright)

ED FO

April 29, 2019
Dear Members of the New York State Senate and Assembly:

We the undersigned—New York Businesses United for Product Safety--a group of more than 25 organizations employing

tens of thousands of workers in New York oppose S. 501-B / A. 6296-A. Together New York Businesses United for
Product Safety collectively employ over 98,000 New Yorkers.

The legislation would establish a burdensome, unworkable chemical regulatory program. Congress passed bipartisan
comprehensive reform legislation to update the regulation of chemicals for the first time in 40 years, modernizing the
Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) to meet the needs of the 21st Century. The Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety
for the 21st Century Act (LCSA) was signed and enacted into law on June 22, 2016. More effective federal oversight of
chemicals will give Americans greater confidence that chemicals in commerce are being used safely and reduce the

number of inconsistent state-based chemical initiatives that impede interstate commerce and send mixed messages to
consumers.

The undersigned represent leading consumer product, chemical and other manufacturing interests in New York State.
Over 96% of all manufactured goods are directly touched by the business of chemistry, making New York’s chemical
makers an essential part of every facet of our economy. Thanks to chemistry, our lives are healthier, safer, more
sustainable and productive than before. The chemical manufacturing industry is New York’s largest manufacturing sector,

and represents 9% of total manufacturing employment in New York and 24% of our state’s overall manufacturing
shipments.

As manufacturers that supply food, consumer goods and industrial products to the state of New York, we believe that
assessing product safely is more than simply noting the presence of a chemical substance in a formulation. Consideration
of product use, user exposure to the chemical in the product, and the functionality of the chemical in the formulation must
be included in the legislation.

In recent years, New York has dropped from Sth to 8th in state chemical production. Unlike other states like North
Carolina that are seeing production increases, New York has lost more than a quarter of its shipments — dropping from
$41.5 billion to $30.3 billion.

S.501-B / A.6296-A would only accelerate this decline. These proposals would create a state-level chemicals regulatory
program that would provide a target list of specific chemicals that could result in restrictions or bans in consumer
products, adding to the increasing burdens facing manufacturers in New York State. The legislation does not provide for
an adequate, scientific, risk-based system of analysis; instead, it appears to identify chemicals of concern based on a
hazard characterization alone.

Furthermore, we believe that assessing product safety is more than simply noting the presence of a chemical substance in
a formulation. It must also include considerations of product use, user exposure to the chemical in the product, and the

functionality of the chemical in the formulation, as well as the unintended consequences of removal of a chemical from a
product. With this proposed legislation lacking such consideration, the process would only add uncertainty for New York

businesses and would force companies to comply with yet another state regulatory program among an already crowded
patchwork of state laws.

Instead of a state-by-state approach, we believe the Federal Lautenberg Chemical Safety Act will ensure that chemicals in
commerce are safe for humans and the environment, while protecting the growth and competiveness of businesses.

Accordingly, on behalf of all our memberships, we strongly urge you to support economic growth in New
York and oppose S. 501-B / A. 6296-A.

Scanned with CamScanner
SENATE HEALTH COMMITTEE — May 21, 2019

Ce SUPPORTS 4

ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVOCATES OF NEW YORK Key to Legislative Ratings had Major Benefit ee Substantial Benefit 4 Beneficial
Lead Testing in Day Cares
S.842-A (Montgomery, et al.)
No Same As

Explanation

This legislation requires lead in drinking water testing and remediation at a limited number of
child day care facilities in New York. With young children at highest risk of life-long damage
from this neurotoxin, New York must take steps to ensure day care facilities are lead-free spaces.

There is no safe level of lead in drinking water. The growing bodies and developing organs of
children are especially vulnerable to lead exposure. Even low levels of lead in children can cause
neurological damage, impaired hearing, slowed growth, and anemia.

This legislation builds on New York’s nation-leading efforts to reduce lead in drinking water. In
2016, the Legislature required public schools to regularly test their tap water for lead and take
action if elevated levels were discovered. A 2018 analysis of the statewide testing data revealed
the shocking prevalence of lead in drinking water: around 82% of school buildings reported one
or more taps that tested above the state lead action level (15 parts per billion).

It is time to expand protections against lead in drinking water to day care facilities statewide,
where young children can spend a large proportion of their time. It is essential that New York
guarantees these children clean and safe drinking water. New York City and nine other states

already require lead testing at certain day care facilities.

We recommend expanding this legislation to all day care facilities licensed or registered
with the Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS). The legislation currently only
applies to child day care centers, while excluding home-based care such as group family day care
homes and family day care homes. Recent data from OCFS indicates that 12,099 home-based
facilities, with the capacity to serve 154,774 children, would not be covered by this legislation.
All children in day care should have the same drinking water protections, regardless of the type
of facility they are placed in.

Summary

This bill amends Section 1110 of the Public Health Law to expand testing for lead in drinking
water to certain day care facilities.

Environmental Advocates of New York supports this bill.

353 Hamilton Street, Albany, New York 12210 + Tel 518.462.5526 + Fax 518.427.0381 - www.eany.org

Printed on 100% post-consumer recycled paper.

Memo #42

Scanned with CamScanner
Legislative Affairs

One Whitehall Street

New York, NY 10004

212-607-3300
www.nyclu.org

NEW YORK CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

2019 — 2020 Legislative Memorandum
Subject: Relates to requiring consent to perform a pelvic examination
on an anesthetized or unconscious person

S.1092-B (Persaud) / A.6325 (Solages)

Position: SUPPORT

In teaching hospitals throughout New York, unconscious patients are being used as
teaching tools for medical students learning how to perform pelvic exams. As part of their
educational programs and under the supervision of a health care provider, medical
students perform these exams by inserting their fingers into unconscious patients’ vaginas
without a medical purpose related to the patients’ treatment and without prior consent. !
Often, patients are never told that they were used as teaching tools, and the information is
not included in their medical records.?

S.1092-B/A.6325 would end this intrusive practice. The bill makes it professional
misconduct for a provider to supervise or perform a pelvic exam on an anesthetized or
unconscious patient without first obtaining the patient’s informed consent, unless the
pelvic exam is part of the medical procedure or the patient is unconscious and the pelvic
exam is medically necessary and required for diagnosis.3

The NYCLU strongly supports this bill and urges its speedy passage.

Pelvic exams are uniquely invasive, and without prior consent, these exams inflict a
particularly unique and egregious gender-specific harm. Patients often feel vulnerable,
subordinate, and nervous prior to pelvic exams.‘ Sexual assault survivors can find these
exams particularly traumatic. In fact, “many women said they would feel ‘physically
assaulted” if they did not specifically consent to a pelvic exam performed while they were

1 Phoebe Friesen, Why Are Pelvic Exams on Unconscious, Unconsenting Women Still Part of Medical
Training?, SLATE, Oct. 30, 2018, https://slate.com/technology/2018/10/pelvic-exams-unconscious-women-
medical-training-consent.html.

2 Id.
3 §.1092--B § 1, 2019-2020 Reg. Sess. (N.Y. 2019).

4 Friesen, supra note 1; see generally M. Larsen, CC Oleide, & K. Malterud, Not so bad after all..., Women’s
experiences of pelvic examinations, 14 FAM. PRACT. 148 (1997).

5 Friesen, supra note 1.

Scanned with CamScanner
NIRH

National Institute for
Reproductive Health
Action Fund

April 8, 2019

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
S. 1092B (Persaud)
An act to amend the education law, in relation to including in the definition of professional
misconduct performing a pelvic examination without consent on an anesthetized or unconscious
person.

It is currently legal in the state of New York for medical students to perform pelvic exams on
patients under anesthesia without first obtaining their explicit consent?. This practice violates
both a patients’ trust in their doctor and the basic right to give informed consent on all medical
procedures. Doctors are not required to inform their patient of this unnecessary examination
even after it has taken place. Six states have already banned this practice and it is time New
York joins them, and continues to ensure the protection of all of its citizens?.

Medical students can learn to perform these important exams on fully consenting patients.
When surveyed in a 2010 study, more than 60% of woman said they would allow medical
students to perform these training exams during surgery if they were asked prior to their
procedure?.

S.1092B would amend the education law to include the performance of unconscious pelvic
exams in the code of professional misconduct, unless informed consent has been given by the
patient beforehand or it is deemed medically necessary to perform the exam while the patient
is already unconscious. The elimination of this sanctioned misuse of women’s bodies would not
hinder the education of future doctors- but rather return the right to informed consent taken
from women without their knowledge. New York State must continue to push for women’s
rights and take a decisive stand by banning this harmful procedure. New York State has been a
pioneer in protecting woman’s rights and in fighting to ensure the safety and security of all. It is
time for us to lead again.

The National Institute for Reproductive Health unequivocally supports the passage of S.
1092B (Persaud) and urges the legislature to pass this bill.

1 Naseef, Z. (September 12, 2018). Doctors Regularly Give Anesthetized Patients Non-Consensual Pelvic Exams—And This
Needs To Stop. Bust. Retrieved from https://bust.com/feminism/195099-public-exams-anesthesia.html

2 Friesen, P. (2018, October 30). Why Are Pelvic Exams on Unconscious, Unconsenting Women Still Part of Medical Training?
Slate. Retrieved from https://slate.com/technology/2018/10/pelvic-exams-unconscious-women-medical-training-consent.html
3 Wainberg, S. Wrigley, H. Fair, J. Ross, S. January, 2010). Teaching pelvic examinations under anesthesia: what do women
think?. PubMed. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20370981

ey ns .. re eee eee
14 Wall Street +» Suite 3B * New York, NY 10005 « 212-343-0114 + www.nirhealth.org

Scanned with CamScanner
P| a Nn Nn ed 194 Washington Avenue, Suite 620

Albany, NY 12210

Parenthood’ p: 518.436.8408 - f: 518.436.0004

Act. No matter what. www.PPESacts.org
Planned Parenthood Empire State Acts
MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT
A 6325 (Solages)/S 1092-B (Persaud)
2019

AN ACT to amend the education law, in relation to pelvic examinations on unconscious patients.

Unconsented pelvic exams are not illegal in the state of New York. For example, medical students at a teaching
hospital can conduct pelvic exams on unconscious patients without their informed consent to the procedure.
Reports indicate that this can happen when a patient is anesthetized for a gynecological procedure unrelated to
a pelvic exam.” While the patient is unconscious, a medical student (or sometimes multiple) is instructed to
practice administering a pelvic exam on them. The patient may never know they were subjected to an
unconsented pelvic exam, thus violating the trust and respect of bodily autonomy that is supposed to exist
between a physician and a patient.

At teaching hospitals, defenders of unconsented pelvic exams argue that the procedure is necessary in the name
of education. They assert that if individuals were asked for consent beforehand, they would say no, leaving
students without the opportunity to learn and develop a critical skill.2 However, education is not an excuse to
rob individuals of their right to informed consent. Patients should not be subjected to an unconsented pelvic
exam if they are in the operating room for a separate procedure. If a patient is anesthetized for brain surgery,
for example, the consent to that procedure only applies to the head, and not to other parts of the body.
Providers must retain the ability to deliver unconsented care only when medically necessary and uphold the
practice of affirmative consent if the procedure will offer no medical benefit for the patient.

A 6325 (Solages)/S 1092-B (Persaud) would amend the education law to include the performance of
unconsented pelvic examinations in the code of professional misconduct. Providers, and those supervising
students, could be charged with professional misconduct (with certain exceptions), if found to have
administered or supervised the provision of pelvic exams to unconscious patients without their explicit consent.
Exceptions include if prior consent was already given, if a pelvic exam is in line with the expected procedure, and
if the recipient of the exam is unconscious and a pelvic exam is needed for diagnostic purposes.‘

When women were surveyed about the issue of unconsented pelvic exams, the majority said they would
consent if they were informed about the procedure beforehand.° This finding rejects the assertion that asking
for consent would jeopardize educational opportunities for medical students. Unconsented pelvic exams are a
violation of consent and bodily autonomy, widely unnecessary, and they normalize toxic behavior that displays
women’s bodies as open for unconsented invasion. The practice of unconsented pelvic exams is outlawed in
Hawaii, California, Illinois, Virginia, Utah, and Oregon, but it is still legal in the 44 remaining states, despite
widespread condemnation of the practice.® New York needs to join other forward-thinking states and curtail this
deeply problematic practice.

Planned Parenthood Empire State Acts strongly urges the legislature to pass this crucial bill.

1 Eisenberg, A. (2019, March 14). New bills would ban pelvic exams without consent. Politico. Retrieved from https://www.politico.com/states/new-

york/albany/story/2019/03/13/new-bills-would-ban-pelvic-exams-without-consent-910976

? Friesen, P. (2018). Educational pelvic exams on anesthetized patients: Why consent matters. Bioethics, 32(5), 298-307.

3 Ibid.

“Senate Bill $1092B, 2019 Persaud, 2019 Reg. Session. (New York 2019).

5 Friesen, P. (2018, October 30). Why Are Pelvic Exams on Unconscious, Unconsenting Women Still Part of Medical Training? S/ate. Retrieved from
https://slate.com/technology/2018/10/pelvic-exams-unconscious-women-medical-training-consent.html

§ Ibid.

Scanned with CamScanner
New York State
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES

FEDERATION AFL-CIO

LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 1-800-724-4997
90 State Street, Suite 1029 1-518-432-4003
Albany, NY 12207 Fax: 1-518-432-7739
Wayne Spence, President Kay Wilkie, Secretary Treasurer

‘OPPOSE

June 4, 2019
A. 5493-A (Mosley)/
S. 1343-B (Benjamin)

The New York State Public Employees Federation, representing 55,000 Professional,
Scientific, and Technical workers of New York State, opposes this legislation.

This legislation would amend the Executive Law and the Penal Law in relation to the
revocation of community supervision. The bill, known as “less is more,” dramatically
changes the current law as it relates to community supervision. As written, the bill would
make it virtually impossible for parole officers to do their jobs. The proposal removes all
meaningful consequences for bad actors, ties the hands of parole officers and makes it
much harder for them to help parolees transition back into society. With the number of
violent crimes on law enforcement personnel on the rise, the timing of this proposal could

not be worse.

The legislation relies on the faulty premise that our jails and prisons are full of parolees
sent back by overzealous parole officers because they were fifteen minutes late for curfew.
In fact, less than 2 percent of the inmates at Rikers Island are true technical parole
violators. The other 18 percent of the population considered parole violators are
obsconders, who are actually fugitives whose whereabouts had previously been unknown.
The bill sponsors wrongfully assume that parole officers’ principle goal is to lock people
up instead of focusing on all of the things that they do to help parolees safely reintegrate
back into the community.

The bill takes the fundamental terms and conditions of parole, which is essentially a

contract between the parole officer and the parolee with expectations, rules and
consequences, and wipes out the consequences. As written, parole officers no longer have

the ability to re-incarcerate parolees for violating essentially any of the terms and
conditions of their release. The bill language makes it virtually impossible to incarcerate

(over)

Scanned with CamScanner
NEW YORK

BIGI

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

Date: 6/9/2019

Bill Number: §.1405 (CARLUCCI)/A.7531 (BUTTENSCHON)

Subject: AN ACT relating to home improvement contract provisions
Contact: Scott Hobson, Director of Government Relations

SHobson@BigINY.org
518-708-3247

Summary:

This legislation requires roofing contractors to enter into a written contract which
follows all legal requirements; prohibits roofing contractors from advertising rebates
toward the cost of a deductible; gives consumers the right to cancel a contract within
three business days of being notified their claim for repair has been denied; stipulates
that an owner shall not be responsible for any payments after the contract has been
cancelled except for work done before cancellation; prohibits a roofing contractor from
requiring a deposit in excess of 50% of the total contract amount; prohibits a roofing
contractor from abandoning or failing to perform, without justification, a roofing
improvement contract it has entered into or disregarding or materially deviating from
the plans; stipulates that a roofing contractor shall not fail to pay for materials or
services rendered when the contractor has received sufficient funds as payment for the
contract applicable to those materials and service; bars a roofing contractor from
performing any reporting, adjusting or negotiating of a claim for the owner and;
implements minimum insurance requirements for roofing contractors.

Why We Support this Legislation:

Some of the most common “after-disaster” scams involve damage done to roofs. This
legislation is necessary to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by
unscrupulous “storm chasers,” who frequently descend upon communities after a major
storm, and use high pressure and scare tactics to lure customers into paying a large
deposit, then perform substandard work or disappear without doing any work at all.
These illegitimate contractors may offer to cover the cost of the homeowner’s

a

Trusted Choice
5784 Widewaters Parkway, 1" Floor * Dewitt, NY 13214 « P: 800.962.7950 * BigINY.org =e

Scanned with CamScanner
NEW YORK STATE BUILDERS ASSOCIATION, INC

Lewis Dubuque | Executive Vice President
N Y S S| A Eric Willson | President

“Storm Chaser” Legislation
S.1405 (Carlucci)
A.7531 (Buttenschon)

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION

This memorandum is submitted in opposition of the subject bill, which focuses on preventing a roofing
contractor from using insurance proceeds as an inducement, either directly or through advertisement, to
motivate a customer to enter into a contract to repair damage potentially covered by insurance.

A simpler approach would be to explicitly prohibit a roofing contractor from entering into a contract
contingent on the receipt of insurance proceeds by the customer. Based on the uncertainty with respect to
the amount and timing of payment it is not productive for either the customer or the contractor to predicate
the transaction on future receipt of funds which may not materialize. This approach is equivalent to
contracting for home construction and starting work before there is a commitment for a construction loan
from the lending institution as to the amount and payment of the same.

This approach would eliminate the necessity for the cancellation provision, which permits the customer to
nullify the contract if the insurance proceeds are not forthcoming. This provision is not positive for the
consumer because even if the contract ends the residence may be in a state of semi-repair where the work
was started. The contractor risks both loss of payment for the work undertaken as it applies to both labor
and materials. The homeowner has a cancelled contract, where the job is undone.

We believe that a consumer should not contract for a project where there are not sufficient funds available
to the consumer to pay for the project. The contractor should not be using contingent insurance funding as
an inducement to undertake a project which is not otherwise financially feasible. This approach indicates,
in many cases, that the contractor is not interested in completion of the work and that a potential scam is
being initiated.

Most other provisions in the bill are unnecessary because they are either dealt with in the contract or
pursuant to the current Home Improvement Contract Law, which is applicable to the roofing contractors.

The Home Improvement Contract law provides two pathways for contractors to perform - on a time and
materials basis or progress payments. The statute requires progress payments to show the amount of
payments and identify the state of completion when the payment is due. The contractor is required to place
funds in an escrow account or other prescribed method to protect the consumer's funds.

This bill provides that the contractor cannot require a deposit of more than half of the agreed-upon
consideration. This provision is at variance with the Home Improvement Contract law, which requires the

152 Washington Avenue | Lower Level | Albany, New York 12210 | 518.465.2492 | 518.465.0635 fax |
Email: info@nysba.com | Website: www.nysba.com

Scanned with CamScanner
PhysiciansCommittee

for Responsible Medicine m PCRM OR
5100 Wisconsin Ave. NW, Suite 400 * Washington, DC 20016 ¢ Tel: 202-686-2210 © Fax: 202-686-2216 © pcrm@pcrm.org

April 12, 2019
Memorandum of Support

$1472 (Hoylman) / A1624 (Gottfried)
Relating to Plant-Based Food Options in Schools

On behalf of our several thousand members in New York, the Physicians Committee for
Responsible Medicine strongly supports $1472 (Hoylman) / A1624 (Gottfried). This
important bill will provide plant-based options to students in public schools.

Research shows that plant-based diets—which are high in fiber, nutrients, and vitamins
and low in saturated fat and cholesterol—can help prevent and treat diet-related
disease.

Heart disease has long been the number one cause of death in New York and is
predominantly the result of diets high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Other chronic
diseases, such as diabetes and cancer, also place a huge burden on the state’s
economy and public health resources. Plant-based diets reduce the risk of heart
disease, kidney disease, obesity, and several types of cancers.

More and more children are being diagnosed in New York with type 2 diabetes.
According to the 2015 report, “Diabetes in New York State,” prepared by the Office of
the State Comptroller, about 10 percent of adults in New York have been diagnosed
with diabetes. And 95 percent of New Yorkers with diabetes have type 2, which is
usually caused by poor diet. New York currently spends approximately $22 billion per
year treating diabetes. Much of this expense is due to the skyrocketing costs of insulin,
the frontline medical treatment for diabetes. However, lifestyle changes, including a
plant-based diet, can greatly improve the body’s ability to regulate glucose levels,
thereby lowering or eliminating the need for insulin in the first place.

This bill will give the public school system the opportunity to help young New Yorkers
make responsible choices for their nutrition, especially as the broader food environment
often discourages good dietary behaviors. Ensuring that students have access to
healthy plant-based meals helps reduce their future risk of very expensive diet-related
illness. $1472 (Hoylman) / A1624 (Gottfried) is a simple yet important measure that will
lead to improved health outcomes for New York’s future voters. For these reasons, the
Physicians Committee strongly urges support for $1472 (Hoylman) / A1624
(Gottfried).

Scanned with CamScanner
NEW YORK SHOULD LEGALIZE
MARIJUANA THE RIGHT WAY

New York should be the next
state to legalize marijuana.

Hundreds of thousands

of people across the state
have been funneled into

the criminal justice system
for behavior that most New
Yorkers don’t believe should
be a crime. We have an
opportunity to stop this and
to repair some of the damage
from the failed war on drugs.

NYCLU

NEW YORK CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

APRIL 2019

OVERVIEW

Marijuana arrests are a key driver of mass incarceration in America -
and they have a devastating and disproportionate impact on
communities of color in New York state. On average, 60 New Yorkers
are arrested for marijuana possession daily - and four out of five are
black or Latino. Hundreds of thousands of people across the state
have been funneled into the criminal justice system for behavior that
most New Yorkers don’t believe should be a crime. These arrests can
have profound consequences beyond potential jail time: educational
and employment opportunities can be diminished, housing and
child custody can be put at risk, and lives can be upended and even
destroyed.

New York must legalize marijuana for use by adults and limit the often-
dire consequences of past marijuana convictions, ensure a diverse

and inclusive legal marijuana industry, and drive resources to the
marginalized communities of color that have been hardest hit by the
decades-long war on drugs.

The Marijuana Regulation and Taxation Act (MRTA)
(S.1527/A.1617) includes four key considerations

to ensure that marijuana legalization is fair and
equitable:

[i] Marijuana is no more dangerous than alcohol and
they should be treated the same way.

Marijuana should be viewed from a public health

perspective, just like alcohol. The legislature must resist

calls to keep marijuana in the criminal code or to impose

harsher new penalties on New Yorkers who violate legalized

marijuana rules.

Scanned with CamScanner
NEW YORK STATE
() S NETWORK FOR
YOUTH SUCCESS

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
$.1527

The NYS Network for Youth Success represents afterschool programs and providers across the
State. We respectfully request that a percentage of revenue generated from the legalization of
marijuana be dedicated to afterschool programs.

In its current form, the Act would "develop and implement a youth-focused public health
education and prevention campaign, including school-based prevention..." Afterschool
programs, especially those located in high-need districts with at-risk children and youth, are
well-positioned to provide a forum for this campaign. A survey of our member organizations
earlier this year showed that many already provide a drug abuse prevention curriculum and are
eager to ramp up those efforts.

The Act would also establish a "NYS community grants reinvestment fund" with funds going to
"qualified community-based nonprofit organizations". With a fund steering committee
comprised of agencies including the NYS Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS) and the
NYS Education Department (NYSED), we see this as another opportunity for afterschool
programs. We urge you to include language explicitly about afterschool programs so that they
do not get lost in larger discussions.

New York State currently serves 16,000 children and youth through the Advantage After School
Program and 35,000 through the Empire State After-School Program. These programs provide a
safe, supervised space for children from the hours of 3:00 — 6:00. Programs are proven to:
decrease drug use; build resilience; improve health outcomes and academic achievement; and
reduce crime. Programs are most important for those at-risk, including racial minorities,
children of incarcerated parents, and immigrants.

Research shows that if children and youth have a strong foundation, they are less likely to
engage in risky behaviors. Therefore, we believe that afterschool and summer programs are the
ideal venue to not only educate children and youth about the dangers of drug abuse, but
(perhaps more importantly) to provide and strengthen the Protective Factors that have been
shown to decrease drug use.

As defined by the Center for the Study of Social Policy, there are five Protective Factors:

Scanned with CamScanner
MEDICAL SOCIETY

of the

STATE OF NEW YORK

Morris M. Auster, Esq. Division of Governmental Affairs

Senior Vice President/ MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION
Chief Legislative Counsel

In Senate Finance Committee S.1527A (KRUEGER)

In Assembly Codes Committee A. 1617A (PEOPLES-STOKES)

AN ACT in relation to constituting chapter 7-A of the consolidated laws, in
relation to the creation of a new office of cannabis management, as an
independent entity within the division of alcoholic beverage control,
providing for the licensure of persons authorized to cultivate, process,
distribute and sell cannabis and the use of cannabis by persons aged twenty-
one or older; to amend the public health law, in relation to the description of
cannabis...;

This measure establishes a state Office of Cannabis Management within the NYS State Division of Alcohol Beverage Control.
While the Medical Society of the State of New York supports efforts to remove the threat of criminal sanction for those
possessing marijuana, MSSNY has significant concerns with the proposals to legalize marijuana for recreational use—and with
the expansion of its marijuana for medicinal purposes.

Several states that surround New York State have taken steps to legalize marijuana and the country of Canada has recently
legalized its use throughout the country. However, the New Jersey Legislature recently chose not to enact legalization of
marijuana. New York State must take notice of New Jersey’s action and begin to look at the data that is coming in from states
that have legalized marijuana for recreational purposes. The Medical Society of the State of New York opposes recreational
marijuana legalization (MSSNY Policy 65.965). The Medical Society of the State of New York supports promotion of drug
treatment to those arrested or fined for marijuana related offenses and encourages communities to develop programs that
emphasize drug treatment and rehabilitation rather than criminalization of marijuana. | (MSSNY Policy 65.986). The
decriminalization of marijuana is a social justice issue due to the disparity of the populations who are impacted.

The Medical Society is working with seven other state medical societies calling upon the various state legislature to begin a
review of the current data. The American Medical Association (AMA) stands with the state coalition in expressing its
opposition. James Madara, MD, executive vice president and CEO of the AMA recently sent a letter to New Yorn Site
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and New York State Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins urging them to delay
initiating the legalization of cannabis for recreational (non-medicinal) use until further research is completed on the public
health, medical, economic and social consequences of its use.”

Moreover, we note that in 2017 the AMA approved a policy position based upon recommendations from its Council on
Science and Public Health that concluded the sale of cannabis for recreational use should not be legalized. Its position was
based upon the analysis of multiple studies that found, even as cannabis had some therapeutic benefits, there was substantial
evidence of a statistical linkage between cannabis smoking and health issues. The AMA-issued paper looked at data from

1 Commerce Plaza, Suite 408, Albany, NY 12210 * TEL (518) 465-8085 * FAX (518) 465-0976 Email : albany@mssny.org

Scanned with CamScanner

MEDICAL SOCIETY

of the

STATE OF NEW YORK

Morris M. Auster, Esq. Division of Governmental Affairs

Senior Vice Presiden’ MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION
Chief Legislative Counsel

In Senate Finance Committee S. 1527B (KRUEGER)

In Assembly Codes Committee A. 1617B (PEOPLES-STOKES)

AN ACT in relation to constituting chapter 7-A of the consolidated laws, in
relation to the creation of a new office of cannabis management, as an
independent entity within the division of alcoholic beverage control,
providing for the licensure of persons authorized to cultivate, process,
distribute and sell cannabis and the use of cannabis by persons aged
twenty-one or older; to amend the public health law, in relation to the
description of cannabis...;

This measure establishes a state Office of Cannabis Management within the NYS State Division of Alcohol Beverage Control.
While the Medical Society of the State of New York supports efforts to remove the threat of criminal sanction for those
possessing marijuana, MSSNY has significant concerns with the proposals to legalize marijuana for recreational use—and with

the expansion of its marijuana for medicinal purposes.

Several states that surround New York State have taken steps to legalize marijuana and the country of Canada has recently
legalized its use throughout the country. However, the New Jersey Legislature recently chose not to enact legalization of
marijuana. New York State must take notice of New Jersey’s action and begin to look at the data that is coming in from states
that have legalized marijuana for recreational purposes. The Medical Society of the State of New York opposes recreational
marijuana legalization (MSSNY Policy 65.965). The Medical Society of the State of New York supports promotion of drug
treatment to those arrested or fined for marijuana related offenses and encourages communities to develop programs that
emphasize drug treatment and rehabilitation rather than criminalization of marijuana. (MSSNY Policy 65.986). The
decriminalization of marijuana is a social justice issue due to the disparity of the populations who are impacted.

The Medical Society is working with seven other state medical societies calling upon the various state legislatures to begin a
review of the current data. The American Medical Association (AMA) stands with the state coalition in expressing its
opposition. James Madara, MD, Executive Vice President and CEO of the AMA recently sent a letter to New York State
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and New York State Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins urging them to “delay
initiating the legalization of cannabis for recreational (non-medicinal) use until further research is completed on the public
health, medical, economic and social consequences of its use.” Moreover, we note that in 2017 the AMA approved a policy
position based upon recommendations from its Council on Science and Public Health that concluded the sale of cannabis for
recreational use should not be legalized. Its position was based upon the analysis of multiple studies that found, even as
cannabis had some therapeutic benefits, there was substantial evidence of a statistical linkage between cannabis smoking and
health issues. The AMA-issued paper looked at data from jurisdiction’s that legalized cannabis that demonstrated adverse

1 Commerce Plaza, Suite 408, Albany, NY 12210 * TEL (518) 465-8085 ° FAX (518) 465-0976 Email : albany@mssny.org

. -- -~iy usaut, ara ney alone can end the abhorrent use of
= . se 0
Carceration to respond to mental illness, and the torture of solitary confinement.

Scanned with CamScanner
Re NEW YORK MENTAL HEALTH
COUNSELORS ASSOCIATION
MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT

NYMHCA

$1623 (Sepulveda)/A2500 (Aubry) - Restricts the use of segregated confinement
and creates alternative therapeutic and rehabilitative confinement options (HALT
Solitary Confinement Act)

The New York Mental Health Counselor’s Association strongly supports $1623 (Sepulveda)/A2500
(Aubry) that restricts the use of segregated confinement and creates alternative therapeutic and
rehabilitative confinement options.

The use of solidary confinement is a destructive policy that when prolonged may cause depression,
despair, anxiety, and rage. For individuals already challenged by a mental illness, solidary
confinement aggravates their illness and inhumanely increases suffering and pain. Young
individuals are especially impacted by this practice.

NYMHCA understands that there may be circumstances by which individuals need to be temporarily
separated in order to protect others inmates, themselves, or prison employees. However,
prolonged isolation is destructive and may be counterproductive to a safe climate.

Evidence based alternatives to prolonged isolation may better result in positive behavioral changes
that can assist in developing an overall safe environment.

For the above reasons, NYMHCA supports this legislation.

NYMHCA is the advocacy organization representing the clinical mental health counselors of New York State. NYMHCA
is the state branch of the American Mental Health Counselors Association. Mental health counselors are licensed in
New York via the Office of the Professions in the NYS Education Department. There are over 6,800 LMHCs in NYS.
Licensed mental health counselors use assessment instruments; provide mental health counseling and
psychotherapy, clinical assessment and evaluation, treatment planning and case management, prevention,
discharge, and aftercare services.

For more information regarding NYMHCA contact Heather Evans at Hinman Straub Advisors at
hevans@hinmanstraub.com or 518-436-0751.

Scanned with CamScanner
HALT LONG-TERM SOLITARY CONFINEMENT

THE PROBLEM

The HALT Act

A.2500 (Aubry) / $.1623
(Sepulveda) would put a
strict 15-day cap on solitary
confinement, while making
prisons and jails across the
state safer for everyone.

Lawmakers should pass the
HALT Act without delay.

NEW YORK CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

[new rorkcw unis UNO |

MAY 2019

Prolonged solitary confinement creates severe mental and physical
trauma that can cause irreparable harm. The United Nations calls
long-term solitary that exceeds 15 consecutive days torture. Its
effects can be deadly.

Yet thousands of people are subjected to prolonged solitary
confinement in New York. Our state’s laws permit the use of 23-
hour confinement for months and years at a time in jails and prisons
across the state. Although the state has made important efforts to
reform its use of solitary confinement for people in prisons, more
reform is necessary to ensure that individuals held in prisons and
jails are no longer subjected to prolonged solitary confinement.

THE SOLUTION

PASS THE HUMANE ALTERNATIVES TO LONG-TERM
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT (HALT) ACT, WHICH WOULD:

Prohibit long-term solitary confinement by limiting the time spent
in confinement to no more than 15 consecutive days or 20 days total
in any 60-day period.

Ban solitary confinement of vulnerable populations including:
People 21 years or younger;
Those 55 years or older;
Individuals with certain physical, mental, or medical
disabilities; and
Anyone pregnant or in the first eight weeks of post-partum
recovery or anyone who is a new mother or caring for a child
while in a jail or prison.

Require six hours of out-of-cell rehabilitative programming plus
one hour of out-of-cell recreation per day.

Create alternatives to isolated confinement by requiring
larger jails to provide Residential Rehabilitation Units (RRUs) -

es eee wis auniurrent use Of

pose ww eoimar mess, and the torture of solitary confinement,

Scanned with CamScanner
timesunion

Commentary: Stop incarcerating the mentally ill in solitary confinement
By Alicia Barraza and Doug Van Zandt

Holidays are normally a time of festivities, sharing and families being together. For Easter Sunday, | recall
shopping for that special Lego or K'nex toy that challenged our son, Ben, and that he wanted so badly. From a
young age, he had a talent for quickly assembling these toys. He also had a very caring and loving personality.

Then came the tumultuous teenage years and the summer when Ben began suffering from severe depression.
He did not tell us what was happening to him because he was afraid he would end up ina psychiatric hospital
and be humiliated at school. While in a state of psychosis, he lit a fire in an empty house and was subsequently
arrested. Even though he was an honor student and a Boy Scout and had never been in any type of trouble, he
was sent to prison at the age of 17.

While at Woodbourne Correctional Facility, Ben obtained his GED and was named valedictorian. At the age of
18, he was accepted into the highly competitive Bard Prison Initiative, where he took college courses. Each
year we spent the holidays with him, eating vending machine food and playing card games.

But for Ben, there were more bad times than good times.

Ben told us he was subjected to sexual abuse by another incarcerated person and was assaulted by prison
staff. He began suffering from symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. It all came to a head when he was
wrongly accused of fighting, in retaliation for complaining about staff mistreatment. He was put in solitary
confinement, locked in a tiny cell for 23 hours a day and only allowed out for an hour of so-called recreation,
alone in a different cage. There, he had minimal access to mental health treatment and was not allowed to
attend any programs. Before, we had talked on the phone just about every day, but people in solitary are not
allowed to make phone calls. Ben was completely alone.

Ben could no longer endure the violence, brutality, inhumanity and loneliness of prison life. He had experienced
and witnessed too many horrible events. On Oct. 30, 2014, while in solitary confinement, Ben hanged himself.

He was 21 years old.

Our grief is immeasurable, and we have dealt with it in many ways. Most important to us was preventing this
tragedy from befalling anyone else. We built a replica solitary confinement cell and joined other advocates in
raising awareness across the state while fighting to pass the Humane Alternatives to Long-Term Solitary
Confinement Act (A2500/S1623).

If HALT had been law, Ben would still be alive today. HALT prohibits the placement of people like Ben, with
mental illness, in solitary confinement. Also, it would restrict placement in solitary to more serious misconduct,
so he would not have been sent to solitary for a minor rule violation and with no due process.

In some cases, a person may need to be isolated, and HALT would limit that to 15 days, in line with

international human rights standards. If the person continues to pose a serious threat, they could be
transferred to therapeutic units with the goal of addressing the underlying cause of any problematic behavior,

including by ensuring access to meaningful, pro-social programming.

Now, after a long, hard campaign, the bill has enough support to pass in both houses of the Legislature. We
demand that they bring it to the floor and pass it — without weakening it — this year, and that the governor

sign it as is.

New York's leaders are responsible for our son's death, and they alone can end the abhorrent use of
incarceration to respond to mental illness, and the torture of solitary confinement.

Scanned with CamScanner
ee

New York State
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES

FEDERATION AFL-CIO

LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 1-800-724-4997
90 State Street, Suite 1029 1-518-432-4003
Albany, NY 12207 Fax: 1-518-432-7739
Wayne Spence, President Kay Wilkie, Secretary Treasurer

OPPOSE

June 17, 2019
A. 2500/Aubry
S. 1623/Sepulveda

The New York State Public Employees Federation, representing 53,000 Professional,
Scientific, and Technical workers of New York State, opposes this legislation.

PEF represents roughly 5,000 Department of Corrections and Community Supervision
(DOCCS) employees. Most of them work directly with inmates or those currently on

parole.

This legislation, while well intentioned, may have unintended consequences. This bill
would limit the ability of Department personnel to hold inmates to acceptable standards of
behavior. Restricting staff's choice of sanctions allows inmates to develop manipulative
behavior as they know that sanctions will be limited.

The Special Housing Unit (SHU) is a tool which the Department uses to help reset and
redirect inmates that have made poor choices within their programs or living facilities. It is
part of the progressive discipline system. By limiting the use of the SHU, the safety of
other inmates, as well as the staff, may be put at risk.

For these reasons, the Public Employees Federation urges you to oppose this legislation.

For more information, please contact:

Gregory Amorosi, Legislative Director

Scanned with CamScanner
June is Torture > To Register for the Tribunal, or for more info

_
»

Awareness Month!— contact caicadvocacyday@email.com or
Join June 18 Victor Pate at 646-289-1096

You are Cordially Invited toa:
People’s Tribunal on the Torture of

Solitary Confinementin NY —
Tues., June 18, 11:30 - 1:30

War Room, Capitol, Albany, NY

International law defines solitary confinement beyond 15 days as torture.
New York State regularly flouts this law by holding people in solitary for
months, years, & decades. This People's Tribunal will use a restorative

and transformative justice process to hold our state and its political
leaders to account for this torture, the harm it has caused hundreds of
thousands of New Yorkers, and their failure to act to stop it when they
have the power to do so. Please join us. If you can't be there but would
like to present testimony in support of #HALTsolitary, please take a short
video of yourself explaining why solitary is torture and why you support
HALT, and post on Twitter with the hashtags #NYTortureTribunal and
#HALTsolitary

HALTsolitary

NEW YORK CAMPAIGN FOR ALTERNATIVES TO ISOLATED CONFINEMENT

Scanned with CamScanner
UNION:

STRONG!

w York St

AKCIO Mario Cilento

President

May 17, 2019

PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

SUPPORT HOUSING JUSTICE

The NYS AFL-CIO supports a platform that will strengthen the rent
regulation laws in New York City and its surrounding suburbs while also
expanding tenant protections for nearly 5 million unregulated tenants
across the state.

This would ensure workers are able to keep more of what their labor
earns, and it would make us a more equitable state moving forward,
protecting our members from unjust evictions and arbitrary rent
increases. Strengthening renters’ rights is critical to strong
neighborhoods, educational and health outcomes, and economic
stability for all New Yorkers.

The “Housing Justice for All” platform would do three primary things:

1. Close the loopholes in the current rent laws for 2.5 million rent-
regulated tenants by ending vacancy decontrol and the vacancy bonus;
eliminating major capital improvement increases and individual
apartment improvement increases; and making preferential rents the
legal rent for the life of the tenancy.

2. Grant the right to opt-into the rent stabilization system to every
municipality in New York State.

3. Give all tenants in the state -- except for those in owner-occupied
buildings with fewer than four units -- the basic right to a renewal lease
with a limited rent increase.

These are simple fixes. Many of them were previously the law in New
York State before Republicans weakened the rent laws about 20 years
ago. Others are becoming more popular across the country, like in New
Jersey, which has a statewide just-cause eviction law, and Oregon,
which just passed statewide rent control.

Mario Cilento, President

Legislative Alert

Mike Neidl

Legislative Director

ISSUE THIRTEEN
ISSUE OF THE WEEK

Prevent Workplace Violence
in Public Schools
$1720 Ramos/A6157 Titus, et al

This legislation amends the Labor Law to
require school districts to develop and
implement workplace violence prevention
programs. Current law requires all public
employers to develop such programs, but
school districts are excluded. This bill would
require schools to do the same assessment of
the workplace and develop a strategy to
correct any areas of potential violence that
the state, counties and municipalities have.

Too many tragedies have occurred in schools
across the nation to continue the exemption
from this important safety law. This bill would
simply hold school districts to the same high
standard of workplace violence prevention as
other public employers.

Therefore, this Federation urges this bill be
passed. We hope you can join us at a rally in
support of this bill. Details are below.

CALL TO ACTION

RALLY TO PREVENT
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE

Tuesday, June 4, 2019, 11:00 a.m.
West Staircase, NYS Capitol

For further information contact the Legislative Department at 518-436-8516. Follow the NYS AFL-CIO:
On Facebook—-NYAFLCIO; on Twitter—@NYS AFLCIO

Scanned with CamScanner

Legislative and Political Action Department

Danny Donohue, President

CSEA, LOCAL 1000 AFSCME, AFL-CIO

SUPPORT

A.6157 — Titus / S.1720 — Ramos

The CSEA strongly supports this legislation.

This legislation would amend section 27-b of the labor law to include public schools within the
definition of employers required to develop and implement programs to prevent workplace
violence.

The State Legislature enacted Chapter 82 of the laws of 2006 in order to stem the increasing level
of violence in the workplace. This law requires public employers to develop a workplace violence
prevention program to protect employees from potentially violent encounters. When the 2006 law
was enacted, public schools were excluded from the employers required to develop such programs.

This bill would remove the exemption for public schools. According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, the rate of violent incidents among school employees was almost twice the rate of all
other workers. This bill would address this issue by requiring schools to initiate a violence
protection program, which would include a risk evaluation to determine if the worksite might place
employees at risk of violence and a follow-up procedure to take corrective action. Further, this bill
would not only protect employees, but would also create a safer environment for students to grow

and learn.

All workers deserve to go to work without having to fear that they will face violence. This
legislation is a natural expansion of the existing law and will help protect tens of thousands of
public school students and employees throughout New York State.

On behalf of 300,000 active and retired, public and private employees across the state, CSEA
strongly urges the approval of this bill.

Respectfully submitted,
Fran Turner
Director
FRAN TURNER JOSHUA TERRY BEN PARSONS
Director Legislative Director Legislative Representative

Scanned with CamScanner
LEGISLATIVE MEMORANDUM

SUPPORTS ®

NYSUT represents more than 600,000 professionals in education, human services and health care. Affiliated with AFT e NEAe AFL-CIO. = **@2?»=
NYSUT
Andrew Pallotta, President 800 Troy-Schenectady Road
Jolene T. DiBrango, Executive Vice President Latham, N.Y. 12110-2455
Paul Pecorale, Second Vice President (518) 213-6000, (800) 342-9810

J. Philippe Abraham, Secretary-Treasurer
Christopher J. Black, Director of Legislation

8.1720 Ramos Rules Committee
A.6157 Titus Ways and Means Committee
SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS:

This legislation adds school districts to the list of employers required to develop and implement programs to prevent
workplace violence. This legislation also authorizes any public employee or representative of public employees who
believes that a serious violation of a safety or health standard or an imminent danger exists, to request an inspection by the

Department of Labor.

STATEMENT OF SUPPORT:

Chapter 82 of the Laws of 2006 established a statutory requirement that public employers develop and implement
programs to prevent workplace violence. School districts were exempted under that statute in order to ascertain whether
or not similar requirements already existed under current law. After a thorough review, it was determined that it is
necessary and appropriate to include school districts under the provisions of this law for various reasons.

Sadly, violence in school settings is an increasingly visible element in our state’s education system and too many school
facilities contain real and persistent hazards to the health and safety of teachers, school-related professionals and students.
This legislation would assist school districts in identifying and mitigating potential safety problems in order to ensure a
safe work and learning environment for all of their employees and the students they serve.

It has been argued that the SAVE legislation provides schools with the necessary guidelines and provisions to address
violence in schools. However, NYSUT contends that while the SAVE legislation does address school violence issues, it
addresses them in a reactionary manner, whereas this legislation seeks to address them proactively by preventing school

violence issues (see chart). Specifically, this legislation:

e requires employers to work with unions to evaluate the workplace and identify risks of violence. Employers
then must implement strategies to reduce or eliminate those risks in order to ensure a safe work and learning

environment for all of their employees and students;

e requires that public school districts develop and implement a written workplace violence prevention program;

e requires that school staff receive training on strategies to protect themselves from the violence or other
dangerous situations in the workplace. Training needs are based on the workplace evaluation;

e requires violence reporting systems to be used to track incidences of violent or aggressive behavior in an
effort to identify trends or patterns that require remediation; and .

¢ authorizes any public employee or a representative of such public employee who believes that a serious —___

_ S

—

Scanned with CamScanner
ei eee

2) New York State School Boards Association

Memorandum of SUPPORT

S.1735 (Jacobs) / A.3629 (Schimminger)

An act to amend the general municipal law to allow Kenmore-Town of Tonawanda
Union Free School District to establish an insurance reserve fund

The New York State School Boards Association supports the above referenced legislation and
urges its immediate enactment.

If enacted, this bill would authorize the Kenmore-Town of Tonawanda Union Free School District
to create and fund a health insurance reserve. This would allow the school district to save and then
make expenditures from this reserve fund for any loss, claim, action or judgment directly related to
the district’s self-insured plan. Other school districts in the state have similarly self-insured and
successfully established their own health insurance reserve funds, which has helped them to meet

the financial obligations of self-insurance.

The Kenmore-Town of Tonawanda Union Free School District has saved millions of dollars by
becoming self-insured. Doing so has preserved teaching positions and instructional programming,
and has allowed the district to better align resources to support teaching and learning. Choosing to
become self-insured can be a financially responsible decision for many districts; however, under
current law, most school districts are prevented from saving funds for this purpose, because only a
few districts are authorized to fund a reserve and districts are restricted to a 4% year over year

undesignated fund balance.

For these reasons, NYSSBA supports the above referenced legislation and urges its immediate
enactment. For additional information, please contact NYSSBA Governmental Relations at 518-

783-0200.

24 Century Hill Drive, Suite 200 * Latham, NY 12110 | 518.783.0200 * 800.342.3360 | www.nyssba.org

Scanned with CamScanner
LEGISLATIVE MEMORANDUM

ntl SUPPORTS w#st

NYSUT represents more than 600,000 professionals in education, human services and health care. Affiliated with AFT ¢e NEA « AFL-CIO
Andrew Pallotta, President NYSUT
Jolene T. DiBrango, Frecutive Vice President ma ~ wach oy Shed
Paul Pecorale, Second Vice President Lat 1am. N.Y. 12510-2433
(518) 213-6000, (B00) 342-9810

J. Philippe Abraham, Secretary- Treasurer
Christopher J. Black, Director of Legislation

S.1735 Jacobs 1 Report Calendar #564

A.3629 Schimminger Ways and Means Committee

SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS:

This legislation amends the general municipal law, in relation to permitting the Kenmore-Town
of Tonawanda Union Free School District to establish an insurance reserve fund.

STATEMENT OF SUPPORT:

Self-insured school districts can sometimes face financial peril stemming from large,
unforeseeable, year-to-year variations in claims against a self-funded health insurance program.

Reserve funds, when they have been negotiated by the school district and its labor unions, serve
as a buffer and help avoid the financial burdens that can result when there are variations in

claims on self-funded health insurance programs.

By authorizing the Kenmore-Town of Tonawanda Union Free School District to create a health
insurance reserve fund and make expenditures from such reserve fund, the district and its
taxpayers may realize significant savings. Similar self-insurance mechanisms that were
negotiated with labor have provided relief for other school districts and municipal corporations.

FOR THE ABOVE MENTIONED REASONS, NEW YORK STATE UNITED
TEACHERS SUPPORTS THE PASSAGE OF THIS LEGISLATION.

JL/AB/CB
47027
Full Senate
5/7/19

Scanned with CamScanner
——_»

DISTRICT OFFICE: THE SENATE ALBANY OFFICE:
65 Court Street, Room 213 Room 413
Mahoney State Office Building STATE OF NEW YORK Legislative Office Building
Buffalo, New York 14202 Albany, New York 12247

(518) 455-3240

(716) 854-8705
Fax: (518) 426-6738

Fax: (716) 854-3051

CHRISTOPHER L. JACOBS
SENATOR, 60™ DISTRICT

MEMORANDUM
To: Senate Colleagues
From: Senator Chris Jacobs

Date: August 16, 2019

Re: | Request Special Session to Repeal Chapter 37 of 2019, the “Green Light” Law

I respectfully request that you consider joining me in my request to Governor Cuomo and
Majority Leader Stewart-Cousins that they agree to convene a Special Session of the Legislature
for the purpose of repealing Chapter 37 of 2019, commonly referred to as the “Green Light” law.

This piece of legislation, S1747/A3675 passed both houses of the Legislature by very close votes
and has continued to become more controversial since being signed into law on June 17".
Constitutional questions and concerns that the “Green Light” law could incentivize violations of
Federal immigration law persist. Several lawsuits involving County Clerks have been filed
during the past two months and fears that this law improperly rewards those that live in our
Country illegally remain. A recent poll conducted by the Siena Research Institute found that
most New Yorkers continue to oppose providing New York State driver’s licenses to those that
live here illegally, 53% to 43%.

It is for these reasons that I have chosen to advocate for the repeal of Chapter 37, the “Green
Light” law and I ask that you strongly consider joining with me in requesting a Special
Legislative Session to do so. Please see the attached letter to Governor Cuomo and Leader
Stewart-Cousins. If you should you choose to sign on to this letter, or if you should have any
questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Counsel, James Kirkwood at 518-455-3240 or
kirkwood @nysenate.gov by close of business, Thursday, August 22". Thank you.

Sincerely,

Chris Jacobs

E-mail: jacobs@nysenate.gov n- Website: jacobs.nysenate.gov

Scanned with CamScanner
Planned 194 Washington Avenue, Sulte 620

‘ Albany, NY 12210
Parenthood p: 518.436.8408 - f: 518.436.0004

Act. No matter what. www.PPESacts.org
Planned Parenthood Empire State Acts

Memorandum of Support
A 3675-A (Crespo) / S 1747-A (Sepulveda)
2019

AN ACT to amend the vehicle and traffic law, in relation to authorizing the department of motor
vehicles to issue standard drivers' licenses; and to repeal subdivisions 1 and 7 of section 502 of the
vehicle and traffic law relating thereto

The United States has long been a nation of immigrants, and New York is no exception. In fact, the
Statue of Liberty in New York harbor has long served as a symbol of welcome for new Americans. The
state has long advanced policies that promote the health and wellbeing of all New Yorkers—including
our immigrant communities. In many parts of the state, driving is the only way to access health care,
social services, and other necessities. When our communities are healthy, the entire state benefits,
and this legislation is a positive step toward a healthier and safer New York.

Green Light NY would enable the 752,000 New Yorkers over the age of 16 who are currently ineligible
for drivers’ licenses because of their immigration status to access a “standard” state license. Without a
license, one cannot register or insure a vehicle, or, in much of the state, carry valid photo
identification. Without insurance or a license, individuals may delay seeking needed medical care and
may avoid preventive care entirely. Access to transportation is vital in keeping all New Yorkers healthy.
In much of the state, driving is a necessity — not a privilege. Allowing everyone to access a driver’s
license, regardless of immigration status, would also lower the rate of uninsured drivers in the state.
When New Mexico adopted this policy in 2003, its rate of uninsured drivers dropped from 33% to 9%.1

This policy offers additional financial benefits. Research estimates that expanding eligibility for a
standard license will lead to a one-time revenue surge of $26 million to state and county governments,
followed by an annual increase in revenue of $57 million. It is estimated that this will also lower
insurance premiums across the state by about $17 per person per year, as the pool of insured drivers

expands.’

In 2017, New York announced its plan to be REAL ID compliant by October 2020. This proposal
included three tiers of license, Enhanced, Real and Standard. The addition of a standard license that is
clearly marked as not for federal purposes presents the perfect opportunity to advance the Greenlight
Legislation. Making this standard license available to New Yorkers of all immigration statuses will make
our roads and communities healthier.

Planned Parenthood Empire State Acts urges legislators to support this important initiative.

1 Project Green Light: Driving Together fact sheet.
2 Ibid.

Scanned with CamScanner
GREEN LIGHT NEW YORK:

Equal Access to Driver’s Licenses

Pass the Driver’s License Access and Privacy Act

Making driver’s licenses
available to New Yorkers
regardless of immigration
status will improve equal
treatment of immigrants,
make our roads Safer, and
help our economy.

Across New York,
undocumented residents
struggle to get to work and
take their children to school
because they do not have
access to driver’s licenses.
The Driver’s License
Access and Privacy Act
(S.1747/A.3675) will make
our roads safer, raise state
revenue, allow immigrants to
lead fuller lives, and reduce
the risk that a routine
traffic stop can result in
arrest, detention, or even
deportation.

NEW YORK CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

[oe eee]

MARCH 2019

The Driver’s License Access and Privacy Act will give immigrant
New Yorkers equal access to a basic transportation necessity.

In many parts of the state, being able to drive is necessary to get

to work, bring children to and from school, and get to medical
appointments. Many people without licenses must spend hours
navigating spotty public transit or rely on expensive taxi services for
their daily needs. Denying people the ability to get a driver’s license
denies them the chance to participate equally in everyday life.
People who pass all the necessary driving tests shouldn’t be denied
a license just because of their immigration status.

Making driver’s licenses available to more New Yorkers is good
for public safety. This legislation will make our roads safer by
ensuring that more drivers have passed driving tests and more cars
have been insured. All of us are safer on the roads when fellow
drivers know the traffic laws and have had their cars registered and
inspected.

Licensing more drivers is good for New York’s economy. Licensing
thousands of new drivers will bring in new registration fees. The
Fiscal Policy Institute estimates that this will produce $57 million in
annual revenue and $27 million in one-time revenue.

Licensing can help keep families together. Federal immigration
enforcement has run amok in recent years, separating families across
our country. When immigrant drivers can carry driver’s licenses like
everyone else, it means one less reason that a simple traffic stop
could lead to families being torn apart.

The bill also contains provisions designed to make sure that driver’s
license records are used for driving-related purposes, and can’t be
accessed or disclosed for improper reasons.

Expanding license access to all New Yorkers, regardless of
immigration status, is good for public safety, good for other
drivers, and good for our economy. A dozen states have already
made driver’s licenses available regardless of immigration status.
New York should be next.

Scanned with CamScanner
OPPOSE

Monday June 3, 2019

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION

S.1835 GIANARIS — Senate Calendar 1092
A.1119 SIMOTAS -— Assembly Third Reading Cal. 177

AN ACT to amend the general business law, in relation to allowing a private
right of action for improper debt collection

The New York State Creditors Bar Association (NYSCBA) is an organization of legal professionals in the
area of consumer and commercial debt resolution. The attorneys and their firms who make up the Bar
Association run professional practices that operate under an ethical framework promulgated by the
judiciary in search of durable and equitable debt resolutions. NYSCBA strongly opposes the above
captioned legislation.

This bill creates a private right of action against someone who collects a debt improperly. Violators
would be liable to a debtor for actual damages, punitive damages, and reasonable attorney’s fees. This
right of action is in addition to any action taken by the District Attorney or the Attorney General.

While NYSCBA supports efforts to increase transparency and combat consumer harm, our members call
for a balanced approach to further debt collection regulation. Existing laws and regulation such as the
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act have successfully addressed consumer harm resulting from collection
abuses and bad actors. In addition, NYSCBA members have collectively invested millions of dollars in
compliance systems to ensure appropriate collection practices.

This bill represents a one-sided approach to debt collection regulation that will have unintended
negative consequences. An overly punitive private right of action will ultimately harm consumers by
leaving law-abiding collectors with far less resources to support internal compliance while paying hefty
legal fees to a “cottage industry” of “professional plaintiffs” over perceived technical violations. Further,
this bill does not provide detail necessary to administer such a law, for example, a statute of limitations,
a legal standard of review to impose liability, or provisions addressing technical violations. The bill is also
absent any right to cure alleged violations without which a cottage industry, as has been experienced on
the federal level, will inevitably be created serving no benefit to the consumer which has been discussed
by numerous federal judges. This will start a vicious cycle that will put New York firms out of business
and cost consumers the availability of credit.

NYSCBA therefore strongly opposes this legislation, and urges members to oppose this bill.

Scanned with CamScanner
SHENKER RUSSO
& CLARK LLP

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION
May 31, 2019

A.1119 Simotas (On Assembly Third Reading Cal.177)
S.1835 Gianaris (On Senate 1* Report Cal.1092)

AN ACT to amend the general business law, in relation to allowing a private right of action for
improper debt collection

This memorandum in opposition is written on behalf of our client, the New York
Bankers Association (NYBA). NYBA is comprised of community, regional, and large banks across
every region of New York State. Together NYBA members employ nearly 200,000 New Yorkers,
safeguard $2 trillion in deposits, and extend nearly $70 billion in home and small business loans.

This legislation adds an additional remedy to those already available to debtors under the
General Business Law for violations of the State’s Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. This private
right of action would be in addition to remedies already available and would likely be no more
effective than remedies currently available.

Currently, engaging in prohibited practices under the law could result in criminal penalties
or could result in either the Attorney General or a County District Attorney seeking an injunction
to prohibit such conduct. It is unlikely that a party engaging in such conduct despite the prospect
of a criminal penalty or of action by the Attorney General or a County District Attorney will be

deterred by private rights of action.

In addition, this legislation could have the consequence of promoting frivolous lawsuits by
unscrupulous parties, as it would authorize class actions, punitive damages and attorney’s fees, but
only for the debtor. Creditors would have no such recourse, even against debtors attempting to
“game the system” by using the threat of legal action to prevent legitimate debt collection efforts.
Creditors could not even collect attorney’s fees from debtors who had wrongly alleged that the

creditor engaged in improper debt collection.

For these reasons, the New York Bankers Association opposes this legislation and urges
that it be held.

Respectfully Submitted,

SHENKER RUSSO & CLARK LLP

SHENKER RUSSO & CLARK LLP
P 518-407-5800 * F 518-419-6389

121 STATE STREET, 4TH FLOOR * ALBANY, NEW YORK 12207 » WWW.SRCLAWOFFICES.COM

Scanned with CamScanner
A COALITION OF EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYERS
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS BUILDING

April 22, 2019

The Hon. John Liu
Legislative Office Building
198 State Street, Room 902
Albany, NY 12247

RE: Assembly Bill 2265 and Senate Bill 1848

POSITION: Oppose

Dear Senator Liu:

On behalf of the thousands of members and supporters of the
National Right to Work Committee in New York, I urge you to
oppose Assembly Bill 2265 and Senate Bill 1848 and any other
legislation that would grant New York union bosses even more
special privileges and powers, which will be used in turn to

harass non-union shops and employees.

A. 2265 and S. 1848 would also enable union bosses to
conduct witch hunts by allowing them to bring public enforcement
actions on behalf of the state against employers who are
allegedly breaking worker protection laws.

The real purpose of these bills is plain to see: To
empower union bosses to subject their competitors to endless

legal harassment.

These bills and others like them expand Big Labor’s
influence and power over rank-and-file workers and directly harm

merit-shop competitors and independent workers.

Only Big Labor would gain from these bills. Workers and
taxpayers in the Empire State would all lose out.

No private organization should have the government -granted
power to attack private businesses, ostensibly on behalf of
workers they do not even represent.

Instead of handing over even more special power and access
to union bosses, the legislature should be protecting the rights

WASHINGTON D.C. HEADQUARTERS: 8001 BRADDOCK ROAD ¢ SPRINGFIELD, VIRGINIA 22 160 © TEL. (703) 321-9820 OR (800) 325-7892

“Americans must have the right but not be compelled to join labor unions”

Scanned with CamScanner
Adirondack

\ K Working for
Mountain Club Wilderness

2019 Memorandum in Support

Bill: A7933 by Assembly member O’Donnell _$ \¢58~A
Title: Prohibits the use of drilling fluids, brine and flowback water from wells, pools or

fields on any highway for any purpose including but not limited to de-icing or dust
suppression.

irondack i K) Strongly Su i isl]

This proposal would amend the environmental conservation law Section 23-0305, by adding a new
subdivision 15, in relation to prohibiting the use of drilling fluids, brine, and flowback water from
wells, pools or fields on any highway for any purpose including but not limited to de-icing or dust
suppression. During conventional oil and gas drilling, and during high volume hydraulic fracturing,
chemicals are used in drilling muds, slurries and fluids. Every drilled well produces many gallons of
toxic waste fluid containing the added chemicals, as well as other naturally occurring radioactive
material, liquid hydrocarbons, brine water and heavy metals.1 Well drilling companies end up with
large quantities of waste in the form of flow back fluid, brine, and leachates. These waste products
pose a significant public and environmental health risk if they end up in waterways or aquifers as a

result of disposal or use on roadways.

In March 2018 the Concerned Health Professionals of New York released a report The
Compendium of Scientific, Medical, and Media Findings Demonstrating Risks and Harms of
Fracking (the Compendium), which is a fully referenced compilation of the evidence outlining the
risks and harms of fracking.2 The Compendium collected and compiled findings from three sources
including, articles from peer-reviewed medical or scientific journals; investigative reports by

journalists; and reports from, or commissioned by, government agencies.

“Substantial evidence shows that drilling and fracking activities, and associated wastewater disposal
practices, inherently threaten groundwater and have polluted drinking water sources, as confirmed by the
2016 final report of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the impacts of fracking on the
nation’s drinking water.... of the more than 1,000 chemicals that are confirmed ingredients in fracking fluid,
an estimated 100 are known endocrine disruptors, acting as reproductive and developmental toxicants.
Adding to this mix are heavy metals, radioactive elements, brine, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
which occur naturally in deep geological formations and which can be carried up from the fracking zone with

the flowback fluid.”3

Although this waste exceeds the legal criteria for a hazardous waste classification, it is categorized

ADK | 301 Hamilton Street | Albany, NY 12210-1707 | 518-449-3870 | ADK.org

Scanned with CamScanner
New York State

PUBLIC EMPLOYEES

FEDERATION AFL-CIO

LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 1-800-724-4997
90 State Street, Suite 1029 1-518-432-4003
Albany, NY 12207 Fax: 1-518-432-7739
Wayne Spence, President Kay Wilkie, Secretary Treasurer

May 20, 2019
A.2858-B/McDonald
S.1866-A/Breslin

The New York State Public Employees Federation, representing 55,000 Professional,
Scientific, and Technical workers of New York State, supports this legislation.

This bill would amend section 212 of the Retirement and Social Security Law to increase
the earning limitation for retired persons in positions of public service. Currently, this
limit is statutorily set at $30,000 and has been in place since 2007. The proposed increase
of $5,000 is less than the amount of inflation for the same time period. The fiscal note for
the legislation states that, “the annual cost is estimated to be negligible.”

PEF believes that this legislation would encourage workers, who are highly skilled and
trained, to resume government service after retirement and before age 65. Being able to
capitalize on this important pool of public servants is crucial to the state. Raising the cap
on income before retirement earnings are diminished will incentive this practice.

At a time when we are seeing our state workforce decrease in size, this bill will help retain

professionals who want to keep providing valuable services to the citizens of New York.
Raising the income cap will help to achieve such retention.

For these reasons, the Public Employees Federation urges you to support this legislation.

For more information, please contact:

Gregory Amorosi, Legislative Director

Scanned with CamScanner
New York Committee FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
i) i 50 Broadway, 28™ Floor, New York, NY 10004 email nycosh@nycosh.org
bh ( r y | (212) 227-6440 fax: (212) 227-9854 website: www.nycosh.org

NYSUT, 150 Motor Parkway, Suite 306, Hauppauge, NY 11788
(631) 435-1857 fax: (631) 231-4523

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
Legislation A1261 (Bronson)/S1947 (Ramos)
Title Relates to hours, wages and supplements in contracts for public work

The New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health (NYCOSH) supports
legislation to create a clear definition of public work (A1261/S1947). NYCOSH is an
independent non-profit health and safety organization with offices in New York City and
Hauppauge, Long Island. Approximately 175 local unions and other labor and community-
based organizations in the metropolitan area are members of NYCOSH, as well as several
hundred individual workplace safety and health activists, healthcare and legal
professionals, and concerned New Yorkers. NYCOSH has been providing technical
assistance and comprehensive training in environmental and occupational safety and

health to unions, employers, government agencies, and community organizations for nearly
four decades.

NYCOSH is an expert on construction safety and health, trains 7,000 construction workers
annually and coordinates the Manhattan Justice for Workers Collaborative, which increases
reporting of wage and hour violations and health and safety violations among day laborers
in New York City. NYCOSH authors an annual report on construction fatalities, “Deadly
Skyline,” which has been cited by numerous publications, including The New York Times.

Due to ambiguity in the law, the New York State Department of Labor is often unable to
properly identify that projects which are receiving public funding are subject to the proper
wage scale for such projects. Thus, developers or contractors receiving significant tax
subsidies, and are often creating unsafe jobs, are taking advantage of this situation and are
exploiting workers.

The connection between wage and hour violations and health and safety violations is clear,
and contractors who take advantage of ambiguities in the law are also likely to violate
workers’ safety on job sites.

A1261/S1947 will clear definition of public work, to ensure that construction workers
aren't cheated out of the wages that they earn, and aren’t exploited as a result. The
legislation analyzes if construction is paid for via public funds, and/or if the construction is
performed in contemplation of a public entity leasing a portion of the space in the resulting
development. A project will be deemed public work if it satisfies these two components of
the test and therefore will be subject to the state’s prevailing wage requirement. The
legislation also includes additional oversight and enforcement measures for the

Scanned with CamScanner
MASON TENDERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL
OF GREATER NEW YORK AND LONG ISLAND

ALECET

LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TRUST
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
Legislation A1261 (Bronson)/S1947 (Ramos)
Title Relates to hours, wages and supplements in contracts for public work

The Greater New York Laborers-Employers Cooperation & Education Trust (GNY LECET), a
jointly managed trust fund of the Mason Tenders District Council of Greater New York
representing 17,000 members and 1,200 signatory contractors, rises in strong support of
A1261/S1947 legislation that will create a clear definition of public work.

New York State has a rich history of protecting workers and ensuring they’re paid fair wages and
respected on the job, even going as far as guaranteeing a worker’s right to prevailing wages in
the state Constitution. Prevailing wages allow construction workers to gainfully support
themselves and their families, without the struggle of living pay check to pay check. This wage
requirement applies to public work and has helped uplift countless New Yorkers. However, in
recent years it has become increasingly difficult for the New York State Department of Labor to
define public work and therefore apply the proper wage scale for workers on these projects.

The New York State Department of Labor currently has a three-pronged approach to figuring out
if a project is in fact public work, but this rudimentary system largely excludes the role public
funding plays in these developments. Often, developers are receiving public funding for these
projects but aren’t subject to the proper wage scale for their workforce because of the ambiguity
that exists within the law. Meaning developers and contractors that receive significant public
funding, our tax dollars, are not required to pay workers fair, area standard wages and benefits,
which breeds an underground economy of exploitive labor practices and out of state, underpaid
workers.

A1261/S1947 will eliminate ambiguities in the law and create a clear definition of public work,
thus making sure New York’s workers are receiving the proper wages and benefits for their work
on these projects that will largely benefit the public. The legislation does so by creating a
bright line test that contemplates two major components of the project: if the construction
is paid for in whole or part by public funds and if the construction is performed in
contemplation of a public entity leasing a portion of the space in the resulting development.
A project will be deemed public work if it satisfies these two components of the test and
therefore will be subject to the state’s prevailing wage requirement. The legislation also includes
additional oversight and enforcement measures for the Department of Labor to ensure the proper
requirements and wage scales are applied.

EJ 258 West 27th Street, Suite 1100 | New York, NY 10018 J 212.452.9300 [EY 2124529318 BY anylecetorg

TRUSTEES: Paul O'Brien Chair - Management Trustee | Stephen Flanagan Co-Chair - Labor Trustee | Robert Bonanza Labor Trustee
John O'Hare Management Trustee | Raymond M. Pocino Labor Trustee | Michael Prohaska Labor Trustee | Patrick J. Purcell Jr, Executive Director

AFFILIATES: Mason Tenders District Council of Greater New York & Long Island | General Building Laborers Local 66
Asbestos, Lead & Hazardous Waste Laborers Local 78 | Construction & General Building Laborers Local 79

INS Waste Material, Recycling & General Industrial Laborers Local 108 | Laborers Intemational Union of North America, AFL-CIO/CLC
Contractor Associations | Building Contractors Association (BCA)

Scanned with CamScanner
LIUNA! NY

April 29, 2019
Dear Legislator,

Since the start of the 2019 legislative session, LIUNA-NY has run a strategic campaign in
support of legislation that will give thousands of construction workers on publicly subsidized
projects, union and non-union alike, a much-needed raise.

It was the hope of thousands of construction workers throughout the State of New York and their
leaders that this bill would be passed within the budget. For a variety of reasons this did not
occur.

It is now imperative with less than 50 days left in the session to pass A1261/S1947.

In the waning days of the budget session, there were requests from some Senators for documents,
studies, and news articles related to public works. Enclosed in this box is a voluminous amount
of information that will debunk misinformation being spread and expedite the process around
this legislation.

While you have already received much of this material and heard a great deal about
A1261/S1947 through our countless actions in Albany with thousands of activists and day
laborers, we wanted to be sure you were equipped with all the information once again to dispel a
number of myths around that legislation that continue to rear their head. More specifically, this
box includes economic and academic studies from the Economic Policy Institute and the Cornell
University School of Industrial and Labor Relations to help you dismiss misinformation about
the cost implications of prevailing wages and construction workforce diversity being spread by
opponents of the legislation. It also includes news articles and op-eds that demonstrate the
breadth of support for this legislation both upstate and down.

With June 19 fast approaching, it is imperative you recognize the facts and disregard the
misinformation and falsities meant to keep workers from earning the wages they deserve.

Time is running out for our elected leaders to ensure New York is on the side of workers and
taxpayers. With A1261/S1947, New York will finally be able to balance the disbursement of
public dollars with greater fiscal responsibility to the very people that build our state and pay the
taxes that make it possible to dole out vast sums of money. You must push back against elements
with questionable ties to billionaire developers who push the illogical narrative that the best way
to help workers of color is to NOT raise their wages.

On behalf of LiUNA-NY’s combined 40,000 members and over 1,500 signatory contractors, we
ask that meet your obligation and commitment to pass legislation that will raise wages for all
construction workers, Union and Non-Union and to ignore the distractions and diversions created
by its opponents.

Scanned with CamScanner
- New York State

LECET

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

Legislation A1261 (Bronson)/S1947(Ramos)

Title Relates to hours, wages and supplements in contracts for public work

New York State Laborers Employment Cooperation and Education Trust (NYS LECET) is a labor
management organization representing over 40,000 members, twenty- four local unions and a number of
affiliated contractors. NYS LECET aggressively advocates for wage and safety standards for our
members, raising the floor for both union and nonunion construction workers.

New York State LECET STRONGLY SUPPORTS A1261/S1947, legislation clearly defining public
work.

New York has historically led the nation in advancing the rights of workers, consistently ensuring fair
wages and benefits are paid to the state’s workforce. These workplace protections extend to New York’s
Constitution, where the requirement for employers to pay prevailing wages on public works projects is
enshrined. Prevailing wages ensure workers receive a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work, and prevents
employers from exploiting their workforce.

Ambiguities in the statute have emerged over the years, creating confusion over what projects are deemed
public work, and if employers can be compelled to pay the prevailing wage. The New York State
Department of Labor currently uses a flawed three pronged test to determine what projects can be deemed
public work. As part of this test, distinguishing if a project is paid for in whole or in part by public funds
is only one component in determining if a project can be classified as public work. Often times, this
allows employers to receive significant subsidy from the state with no obligation to pay their workforce
the prevailing wage. Court cases in recent years have eroded what has traditionally been considered
public work, creating an environment where workers can be exploited and paid poverty level with wages.

A1261/S1947 eliminates any uncertainty in the current statute by providing a clear definition of public
work. A clear definition of public work guarantees workers receive the prevailing wages they deserve on
public projects. The legislation does so by creating a bright line test that contemplates two major
components of the project: if the construction is paid for in whole or part by public funds and if the
construction is performed in contemplation of a public entity leasing a portion of the space in the
resulting development. This test is a fair representation of what can be considered public work and
provides clear guidelines to the New York State Department of Labor and employers in determining
whether or not prevailing wages need to be paid. Currently, the New York State Department of Labor is
saddled with making painstaking, and often arbitrary decisions over whether or not a project can be
considered public work. A01261/S01947 assists the Department of Labor by eliminating any ambiguity.
Additionally, this legislation provides New York State Department with stronger enforcement
mechanisms to prevent unscrupulous employers from skirting the law.

This legislation will create a more fair and equitable New York. With passage of this legislation New

York State is sending a clear message; public subsidies come with public responsibilities. New York State
LECET STRONGLY SUPPORTS A01261/S01947.

Scanned with CamScanner
NEW YORK’S WORKING-CLASS FAMILIES NEED YOU

PASS A1261/S1947

ranked in That means New York is missing opportunities to create working-
+ 2-2... lass jobs and provide families with the support and sustaining wages
ALES they need to live here. Making matters worse, court cases and the
age judicial interpretations that have resulted have made it increasingly
~ eee difficult for the NYS Department of Labor (NYS DOL) to determine
eee" where existing prevailing wage requirements even apply for seemingly
straightforward things like “public work.”

Without a clear definition of “public work,” contractors receiving public subsidies—our hard-earned tax
dollars—are not required to pay New York's workers fair, area standard wages, healthcare and benefits.

AREA STANDARD WAGES HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

© ©

1

. . am Ar
y >) ) @ | i1@) = VA@) » 4
awa & 44 \ as Wh Vs & AL | hw 428 2444.0 4j/] WY ies

A1261/S1947 will provide a clear definition of “public work.’ This will make it easier for NYS DOL to
identify this work and apply the proper prevailing wage requirements. A1261/S1947 does so by:

be considered public work if:

NYS DOL to ensure public funds are being

The construction if paid for in part or whole used SPPropy lately and responsibly on
by public funds construction projects

Creating a bright-line test that a project will 2 Creating additional enforcement tools for

The construction is performed in
contemplation of a public entity
leasing a portion of the space in the
resulting development

Public Subsidies Come with Public Responsibilities
Eliminating this ambiguity in the law will ensure New York State is
acting responsibly when financing and commissioning “public work.”

LiUNA! NY

Scanned with CamScanner
INTERNATIONAL

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE For More Information, Contact:
Friday, May 10, 2019 Terry Melvin (518) 436-8516
www.cbtu.org

Public Works Legislation Good for Working Men and Women

CBTU President Statement in Support of NYS A1261/ $1947

Statement by Rev. Terry Melvin
President, Coalition of Black Trade Unionists

The Coalition of Black Trade Unionists has long been a progressive voice within the American labor
movement, advocating for the fair and just treatment of black workers across sectors. CBTU is
unrelenting and unapologetic in our mission to ensure the labor movement is responsive to the needs
of black workers. We also work tirelessly to raise the floor for all black workers, whether union or
nonunion. Therefore, our support for A1261/ $1947, legislation clearly defining public work, should
come as no surprise to those who know us and are aware of the ideals that guide us.

The public works legislation pending before the New York State Legislature is clearly in line with the
mission statement of CBTU. Requiring prevailing wages be paid to construction workers on publicly
subsidized projects is a commonsense solution that addresses an epidemic in New York State. New
York has for too long been in the business of dispersing public funds to create poverty-level jobs that
do nothing to uplift communities of color. This bill will create a pipeline for black workers to have

greater economic opportunities, including the potential to earn the prevailing wages and benefits they
deserve and have long been denied.

The public works bill will benefit black men and women working in the construction industry in a
multitude of ways. Although the legislation is not a union mandate, it creates increased opportunities
for black workers to earn higher wages, and in some cases join a union. A 2017 Economic Policy
Institute study highlighted the benefits unions provide to black workers, citing black workers in the
unionized sector make on average $5 more an hour than their nonunion counterparts. Additionally,
black workers are chronically underrepresented in the nonunion construction sector, representing
only 18.8 percent of the total workforce, compared to 21.2 percent in the unionized construction
workforce. Moreover, construction unions are continuing to make strides, nearly doubling the number
of black apprentices in their training programs over the past twenty years. The public works bill will
serve to further increase opportunities for black men and women in accessing higher paying jobs in
the construction industry, as well as in the unionized construction trades.

Providing a comprehensive definition of public work is critical in creating greater economic mobility for

black workers. We call on the legislature to pass A1261/ $1947 promptly. Our communities have
waited too long for the wages and job opportunities they deserve.

Scanned with CamScanner
Q 225A Main Street * Farmingdale, NY 11735
516-390-7150

Q 744 Broadway ¢ Albany, NY 12207
518-772-1862

O 733 Delaware Road, Box 140 ¢ Buffalo, NY 14223

CITIZENS
CAM PAI G N O 2000 Teall Avenue, Suite #204 By NY ‘ado

FOR THE ENVIRONMENT ——— 315-472-1339
Q 2404 Whitney Avenue, 2nd Fl. © Hamden, CT 06518

www.citizenscampaign.org 203-821-7050

Empowering Communities, Advocating Solutions.

MEMORANDUM OF SUPPORT
‘Ban PFAS in Food Packaging

A. 4739 — Fahy S. 2000 —- Hoylman

An ACT to amend the environmental conservation law, in relation to the use of perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl chemicals in food packaging

JUSTIFICATION

PFAS are widely used in food packaging to provide water and grease resistance. PFAS are found
in fast food packaging, beverage containers, microwaveable popcorn bags, bakery and deli
papers, grocery store take-out containers, and in other food packaging. PFAS are very persistent
in the environment and in the human body, meaning they don’t break down and bioaccumulate
over time. PFAS can transfer from toxic packaging to the foods and beverages we consume,
leading to dangerous exposure. :

PFAS persist beyond the useful life of the packaging, thus contaminating landfill leachate (liquid
drained from landfills and sent to wastewater treatment facilities) and eventually making their
way into our waterways. Samples taken from landfill leachate in Hoosick Falls, NY had PFAS
levels of up to 21,000 parts per trillion (ppt) and surface water samples taken near the landfill
had levels as high as 1,900 ppt. In comparison, the EPA health advisory level for PFAS is 70 ppt.
Exposure to PFAS can lead to higher rates of kidney and testicular cancer, higher cholesterol
levels, suppressed immune system, thyroid problems, and adverse developmental effects and
decreased immune response in children.

Scientific studies show that food packaging is one of the most common ways people are exposed
to PFAS. The Center for Environmental Health found PFAS in 100% of microwave popcorn
bags and molded food service-ware tested. A study by the Silent Spring Institute found PFAS in
one-third of fast food packaging. Currently there are no state or federal regulations on the use of
short-chain PFAS in food packaging, and there is no way for consumers to know if our food is
packaged using PFAS. The only way to ensure PFAS are not contaminating our foods and
beverages is to ban their use in food packaging.

This bill would ban the entire class of PFAS chemicals from food packaging containers used in
New York. Washington State signed similar legislation into law in April 2018. In order to protect
the health and safety of New Yorkers, we must take an aggressive approach by prohibiting the
use of all PFAS chemicals in food packages.

CITIZENS CAMPAIGN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT SUPPORTS
~ A.4739/S.2000 — BAN PFAS IN FOOD PACKAGING

CCE is an 80,000 member non-profit, non-partisan advocacy organization that works to empower communities and
advocate solutions that protect public health and the natural environment

Arnril 1 9N10

— 2

Scanned with CamScanner
IN ASSEMBLY AND SENATE ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION COMMITTEES

OM SUPPORTS 44

ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVOCATES OF NEW YORK key to Legislative Ratings 44h Major Beneft 4h Substantial Benefit 4 Rene ficia
Toxic-Free Food Packaging
A.4739 (Fahy, et al.)
S.2000 (Hoylman, et al.)
Explanation

This legislation bans the use of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in food packaging,
taking much-needed action to prevent these harmful toxins from leaching into and poisoning our
food.

The dangers that PFAS chemicals pose to human health is well-known. According to the EPA,
exposure to PFOA and PFOS. the most studied PFAS chemicals, has been linked to high rates of
thyroid disease, immune suppression, and reduced fertility! PFOA and PFOS have already
caused devastating water contamination crises in New York communities like Hoosick Falls,
Petersburgh, and Newburgh.

PFAS chemicals are used as a grease-repellant in paperboard and food wrappers, and can migrate
from the packaging onto the food. Once ingested, PFAS chemicals can persist in the body for as
long as eight years. Due to the serious threat these chemicals pose to public health, they do not
belong anywhere near our food. Washington State has already banned the use of these chemicals

in food packaging, and New York should follow suit.

Summary
This bill amends section 37-0203 of the Environmental Conservation Law by banning the

manufacture, selling, and distribution of food packaging where PFAS chemicals are present in

any amount.

Environmental Advocates of New York supports this bill.

1 EPA, Drinking Water Health Advisory for Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA), (May 201 6), available at oo

http S/W ww.epa vov/sites/production/files/2016-05/documents/ploa health advisory_final-plain. pdf; EPA, Drinking Water
>. : 3 = h 2 . : : :

Health Advisory for Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (POS), (May 201 6), available at —

https://Awww.epa vov/sites/production/files/2016-05/documents/plos health advisory final S08.pdt
si epa.gov/sites

Memo #38

Street, Albany, New York 12210 ¢ Tel 518.462.5526 * Fax 518.427.0381 * www.eany.org
n Street.

353 Hamilto
ost-consumer recycled paper

Printed on 100% Pp

Scanned with CamScanner
American
= Chemistry
Council”

New York
MEMO IN OPPOSITION

A.4739-A (Fahy)/ S. 2000-A (Hoylman)

The American Chemistry Council (ACC) is a national trade association representing chemicals and
plastics manufacturers in the United States, including member companies in New York State. Our
members are committed to the safety of their products and to the protection of the public health.

Over 96% of all manufactured goods are directly touched by the business of chemistry, making this
industry an essential part of every facet of our nation’s economy. Chemistry provides significant
economic benefits in every state including New York. Thanks to chemistry, our lives are healthier, safer,

more sustainable and productive than before. Nearly 38,000 people are employed by the chemistry
industry in New York.

ACC opposes A.4739-A/ S.2000-A, a bill that would prohibit PFAS in food packaging.

Certain substances in the family of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in paper and paperboard packaging, in order to provide an
effective oil and grease barrier. This type of barrier is essential for certain types of food packaging to

preserve product integrity and to prevent oil and grease from leaking through the packaging material
onto skin, clothing, furniture, etc.

ACC opposes A.4739-A/ S.2000-A, a bill that would prohibit PFAS in food packaging because it is overly
broad, not based on sound science, and would unnecessarily burden consumers and businesses in New
York while providing no appreciable public health or environmental benefit.

The bill is overly broad and not based on sound science.

e. “PEAS” is a broad family of chemistry that encompasses many substances with widely differing
characteristics, structures and intended uses. Importantly, only a small subset of PFAS is
approved for use in food packaging.

This bill presumes that all PFAS chemistries present similar hazard and risk concerns. This is

demonstrably incorrect and is contradicted by the overwhelming weight of scientific evidence.

The use of PFAS in food packaging is strictly regulated by the FDA, which has determined that the
specific PFAS substances currently used in food packaging are safe for their intended use.

© Before a chemical used in food packaging (termed a “food contact substance”) can be sold or
distributed in commerce, it must be reviewed by FDA to determine whether there is sufficient

%y ResporsieCare’ 44 North Pearl Street, Suite 1400+ Albany, NY 12207 | 518-432-7835 | www.americanchemistry.com

Scanned with CamScanner
B Protecting Modern
4.3 ‘ Families Coalition

s A project of

FAMILY EQUALITY COUNCIL

Sy | . | >
> Child-Parent Security Ac
di _— = ey f tag f . 4 ew Oo” “] |
/
Os @ | ( f f f \ r * f
\ 3 f iy = ny A
oy 45 * y f pa a ,
f oS 4
f
tj az g = age FE Qn ied
lO\V/ \ Wd CARMI 5c | ACL) Tr > gf a2
vew York Families Deserve to be Protectec

Academy for Adoption and LGBT Community Center
Assisted Reproduction Attorneys of New York City
American Society for Men Having Babies
Reproductive Medicine National Council of
Auburn Theological Seminary Jewish Women
Equality New York RESOLVE: The National

Human Rights Campaign Infertility Association

Lambda Legal Union Theological Seminary

Scanned with CamScanner
Alban rm
Spencerport, NY 14559-0107
UPDATE sete

NEW YORKERS FOR CONSTITUTIONAL FREEDOMS info@AlbanyUpdate.com

/
KKK

S r~wy117

Child-Parent Security Act
(A.1071-A-Paulin)

Memorandum of Opposition

The Child-Parent Security Act (CPSA) is a pernicious piece of legislation that does absolutely
nothing to promote the important policy goal of security and stability in parent-child relationships.
The true purpose of this bill is to fundamentally redefine the word “parent” for the convenience of
one or two special interest groups. In so doing, the CPSA would reduce women’s reproductive
capabilities to the status of a contracted service and treat children as consumer goods.

The sponsors of the CPSA propose to legalize compensated surrogate parenting contracts and
create aconfusing and deeply problematic legal framework for parenthood. The CPSA’s other major
flaws include its absurd and dishonest name and its stubborn insistence upon placing the
preferences of adults at a higher priority than the needs of vulnerable children.

While the CPSA will no doubt appeal to the small number of affluent New Yorkers who seek to rent
women’s wombs, and while the bill would most certainly provide new and novel opportunities for
attorneys who practice family law, legislators should consider only one question when determining
their stances on this bill. That question is: Would children in the State of New York be better off if
the CPSA became law? Because the answer is clearly “no,” the CPSA must be defeated.

1. The CPSA is unnecessary.

In July of 1992, then-Governor Mario Cuomo signed legislation banning compensated surrogate
parenting contracts in the State of New York. The legislation signed by Gov. Cuomo added a new
Article Eight to the Domestic Relations Law, and stated that “[s]urrogate parenting contracts are
hereby declared contrary to the public policy of this state, and are void and unenforceable.” The
existing policy makes sense, as it guards against the commercialization of reproduction and
parenting. However, the CPSA proposes to reverse this policy by allowing paid surrogacy
agreements. The question is: Why?

NEW YORKERS FOR CONSTITUTIONAL FREEDOMS

Facebook.com/AlbanyUpdate | Twitter.com/AlbanyUpdate | AlbanyUpdate.com

Scanned with CamScanner
New York State
RIGHT TO LIFE COMMITTEE, INC.
41 State Street, M-100, Albany, New York 12207 e Tel: 518-434-1293

New York State Right to Life Statement of Opposition to:

“Judgments of Parentage of Children Conceived through Assisted Reproduction or
Pursuant to Surrogacy Agreements”

S.2071B Hoylman/A.1071C Paulin

New York State Right to Life strongly opposes the bill relating to “judgments of parentage of
children conceived through assisted reproduction or pursuant to surrogacy agreements
(S.2071 Hoylman/ A1071C Paulin) - also known as the “surrogacy” bill.

An amendment to the original bill added outrageous and dangerous language to the Purpose
of the bill, exposing its supporters’ deep disdain for any consideration of the smallest and most
helpless members of our human family. This language has implications for current and future

law, and must be opposed in the strongest of terms:

Section 501-101. Purpose.

“No fertilized egg, embryo or fetus shall have any independent rights under the laws
of this state, nor shall any fertilized egg, embryo or fetus be viewed as a child under the
laws of this state.”

Even after passage of the radical and callous “Reproductive Health Act,” Governor Cuomo and
the State Legislature with its Democrat leadership in both the Senate and the Assembly

continue to show they will stop at nothing to strip every right and protection from unborn
children and treat them as nothing more than inanimate property.

Human life at every stage of biological development is deserving of respect and protection.
The “surrogacy” bill must be opposed for its treatment of human children as invisible and
disposable, and its attempt to enact a new dangerous low in its legal description of children.

June 2019

AFFILIATE
national
RIGHT TO LIFE

committee, inc.

Scanned with CamScanner
energy mW || | AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE
AXE. | New York

Karen B. Moreau Maryann K. McCarthy
Executive Director Associate Director

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION

$.2072 (Carlucci) - A.2064 (Englebright) — On 3 Read in the Senate

This bill, through resolution of the Senate and Assembly, seeks to begin the process of amending Article
1 of the constitution, stating that “each person shall have the right to clean air and water and a healthful
environment.” Because broad terms such as ‘clean’ or ‘healthful’ will be left to court interpretation and
numerous laws already exist allowing for adequate remedies, we strongly oppose this measure.

This bill fails to define ‘clean’ air and water or ‘healthful’ environment. If such an amendment were to
pass, legislative and executive authority would be handed over to the judiciary to define such terms;
thereby, shifting policymaking to the judicial branch and raising separation of powers concerns.
Additionally, the proposal fails to establish which cause of action can be asserted and against whom, or
what remedies are available. The broad nature of this measure creates uncertainty and may result in
arbitrary enforcement that could hold up countless public and private projects; thus, harming the citizens
it seeks to protect by driving up costs and stifling economic opportunities.

Adirect right of action under the constitution provides no additional environmental safeguards and would
only burden the court system. New York’s Constitution already contains a Conservation Bill of Rights that
serves to highlight the importance of environmental conservation and stewardship. Legal protections
exist under the federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Water Drinking Act and the state’s
Environmental Conservation Law and Public Health Law. If harmful conduct occurs where a violation of
law requires remedy, these laws and regulations exist to protect New Yorkers. Furthermore, judiciary
review is already available under Article 78 where citizen suits can be brought to enforce environmental
statutes; thus, making this proposal unnecessary.

For the foregoing reasons, we urge defeat of this legislation.

April 11, 2019

150 State Street Office 518-465-3563 An equal opportunity employer
2nd Floor Fax 518-465-4022
Albany, NY 12207-1675 Email MoreauK@api.org
Email McCarthyM@api.org
www.api.org
=a . DA? WlachingTn cewssaewews ei

Scanned with CamScanner
Memorandum in Support

Fossil Fuel Divestment Act
S.2126 (Krueger) /A.1538 (Ortiz)

AN ACT to amend the retirement and social security law,
in relation to limitations on investments of public pension funds

Summary: S.2126 / A. 1538 requires the New York State Comptroller to divest the Common
Retirement Fund, currently worth about $200 billion, from its holdings in the top 200 publicly
traded fossil fuel companies. Divestment from coal companies must be completed within one year,
and within 5 years from all other fossil fuel companies. Currently about $6 billion in public pension
money is invested in companies that mine, drill and/or produce fossil fuels.

School by school, we have been passing fossil fuel divestment and reinvestment resolutions so that

CUNY's Board of Trustees recognize the popular support for divestment and responsible policies

regarding climate change. As future leaders in New York City, the City University of New York

(CUNY) Community has committed to renewable energy for our future and our livelihoods. We

recognize that our communities will be hit hardest with climate change, and we are committed to

insisting that our University, City and State begin divestment from companies committed to
irresponsible and toxic energy choices.

We are proud to say government bodies of the following schools and institutions have passed
resolutions in support of our campaign goals:

1. The University Student Senate (three times)

2. The CUNY Graduate Center Doctoral Students’ Council

3. The Professional Staff Congress

4, Hunter College Undergraduate Student Government

5. City College of New York Undergraduate Student Government

6. Baruch College Undergraduate Student Government

7. Brooklyn College Student Government

8. The New York City College of Technology Undergraduate Student Government
9. Borough of Manhattan Community College Student Government

10. College of Staten Island Student Government

11. Bronx Community College Student Government Association

12. Medgar Evers Community College Student Government Association
13. Hostos Community College Student Government Association

We therefore call on the legislature to immediately pass the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act to protect
our communities from climate disaster. Divestment is a moral and financial imperative for the long-
term survival of the climate, economy, and communities of the state.

Scanned with CamScanner
350 -rocktanp

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
Fossil Fuel Divestment Act
S.2126 (Krueger)/A.1536 (Ortiz)

350NJ-Rockland and the Rockland Sierra Club, which are working together to fight climate change,
support the passage of the New York State Fossil Fuel Divestment Act.

It is now settled science that human activity—specifically the burning of fossil fuels—is causing
climate change. Experts tell us, and the nations of the world agree, that a temperature rise of 1.5
centigrade will cause irreversible damage to the world’s ecosystems and result in profound human
suffering. If we were to burn all of the fossil fuels currently listed in the inventories of the world’s
fossil fuel companies, we would far exceed the 1.5-degree limit. The only rational course for humanity
is to leave fossil fuel that has already been discovered in the ground and to rapidly shift from reliance
on fossil fuels to renewable energy sources.

Fossil fuel companies and their investors, driven by profit motives, have lobbied for the unfettered
right to continue to produce energy sources that release greenhouse gases and accelerate planetary
temperature rise. We believe it is unwise for institutional investors to participate in this. We want the
State Comptroller to divest the NY State Common Retirement Fund from the two hundred most
destructive fossil fuel companies, and we support the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act, which would require

him to do so.

In addition to the moral grounds for divestment, which we believe are sufficient to support this bill, we
also note that a step of this magnitude will draw significant attention to the urgency of climate change.
This is especially important now, when much of the leadership of our country is aligned with
profiteers who deny that climate change is real. If New York State divests, it will raise the
consciousness of millions of Americans, it will be a strong counter to the disinformation that is
currently being promulgated, and it will set an example that other states will follow.

Finally, we favor divestment for financial reasons. As conditions worsen and awareness of climate
change increases, it is inevitable that governments throughout the world will issue rules and
regulations that will inhibit the production of fossil fuels. In addition, the international community is
already taking voluntary steps on a massive scale to reduce its carbon footprint, including shifts in
building practices, energy efficiencies, transportation systems, and individual behaviors. Sooner or
later, these trends will bring down the value of fossil fuel companies, perhaps precipitously. This has
already happened in the coal industry. Wise investors avoid volatility and significant risk, and that is
exactly what the fossil fuel industry represents today.

We urge the New York Senate and Assembly to take leadership in what we believe to be the biggest

moral issue of our time. Please approve the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act for the sake of New Yorkers,
living and unborn, and the future of our planet and humanity.

Scanned with CamScanner
February 19, 2019
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

Citizen Action of New York strongly supports passage of
§.2126 (Krueger)/A.1536 (Ortiz), the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act

Citizen Action of New York, a membership organization dedicated to social, racial, economic and
environmental justice with members in eight chapters and affiliates across New York State, strongly
supports $.2126/A.1536, which requires the New York State Comptroller to divest the Common
Retirement Fund from its holdings in the top 200 publicly traded fossil fuel companies. The bill requires
divestment from coal companies within one year, and from all other fossil fuel companies by January 1,
2022. Currently about $13 billion in public pension money in our state is invested in companies that
mine, drill and/or produce fossil fuels.

Global warming is reaching crisis proportions, creating havoc to the climate. Climate events such as
Superstorm Sandy and Hurricane Irene have already harmed countless New Yorkers, including in the
New York City metro region, Long Island, Central New York and the Southern Tier. New York will face in
the future massive population dislocation due to rising sea levels, food shortages from dying oceans,
agricultural disruption, and economic devastation to communities around the state. If there is any hope
in limiting the worst climate impacts, the world must aggressively transition to renewable energy.

New York and other states must take the lead in fighting global warming. Divestment is a winning
strategy to combat climate change: it played a role in the end of apartheid in South Africa. Already, over
700 institutions throughout the world -- including governments, schools, religious institutions and
individuals -- have pledged to divest more than $5 trillion from the fossil fuel industry.

It is also fiscally irresponsible to invest in fossil fuels. In the last few years, the decision not to divest
has cost the fund billions of dollars, according to successive studies by Corporate Knights, an investment
research company. As the world economy moves rapidly toward a renewable energy future, continued
fossil fuel development will lead to stranded assets, and the significant devaluation of fossil fuel stocks.

Citizen Action therefore strong urges enactment of the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act this year. (We also
of course strongly support more direct strategies to combat greenhouse gas emissions, most
significantly, the Climate and Community Protection Act, $.2992/A.3876.) Please contact Bob Cohen at

bcohen@citizenactionny.org or at (518) 465-4600 x104 or Jessica Wisneski at (845) 901-0264 with any
questions.

Scanned with CamScanner
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

Fossil Fuel Divestment Act
$2126 (Krueger), A1536 (Ortiz)

AN ACT to amend the Retirement and Social Security Law to limit fossil fuel investments by
public pension funds.

Feb. 27, 2019

Summary:

The Natural Resources Defense Council (“NRDC”) is a national, not-for-profit
environmental and public health organization. NRDC has more than three million members and
online activists around the world, including more than 215,000 in New York State. NRDC is
actively engaged on a wide range of climate and energy issues in New York, including efforts to
ban natural gas oil and gas extraction and limit the development of new fossil fuel infrastructure.

This bill would require the New York State Comptroller to divest the New York State
Common Retirement Fund from stocks, debt or other securities in the 200 largest publicly-traded
fossil fuel companies, along with their subsidiaries, affiliates, or parent entities. These 200
companies are to be identified based on the carbon content of their oil, gas and coal reserves.
Within five years—and one year for companies invested in coal—the Comptroller must
completely divest from these companies whether the fund holds the assets directly or through
separate accounts or comingled state pension funds. The bill, however, also allows the
Comptroller to stop divesting, continue investing, or begin reinvesting, in these fossil fuel
companies if “clear and convincing evidence” shows that the State Retirement Fund has lost or
would lose at least half a percent of the fund’s total worth.

Statement in Support:

Current global fossil fuel reserves, if extracted and bumed, would exceed—many times
over—the international carbon budget for a worldwide average increase in temperatures by 1.5
or 2°C. One global response to this climate crisis is to push large institutions to stop investment
in fossil fuel companies.

NRDC supports divestment as part of a broad climate strategy to pressure companies
from continuing to invest in fossil fuel extraction and infrastructure. For this reason, some large-
scale investors like New York City and the Republic of Ireland have committed to divesting
from fossil fuels. And as of the end of 2018, more than 1,000 institutional investors globally had
committed to divest almost $8 trillion in holdings from fossil fuels.

We also believe that divestment could likely have economic benefits for New York State
and other investors over the long-term. Stated simply, and based on recent assessments by

Scanned with CamScanner
LCSB 51 uu (518) 442-4951 © fax: (518) 442-3957
1400 Washington Avenue uupalb@albany.edu « www.uupinfo.org

es United University Professions
Albany Chapter

February 14, 2019
To whom it may concern:

This is to affirm that the Executive Committee of the University at Albany Chapter of United
University Professions voted unanimously on May 17, 2017 to support the Fossil Fuel Divestment
Act as outlined below.

§.2126 (Krueger) /A.1536 (Ortiz)

AN ACT to amend the retirement and social security law,
in relation to limitations on investments of public pension funds

Summary: S.2126/A.1536 requires the New York State Comptroller to divest the Common Retirement Fund, currently
worth about $180 billion, from its holdings in the top 200 publicly traded fossil fuel companies. Divestment from coal
companies must be completed within one year, and from all other fossil fuel companies by January 1, 2022. Currently
about $5.12 billion in public pension money is invested in companies that mine, drill and/or produce fossil fuels.

Global warming is reaching crisis proportions and creating havoc to the climate. The climate crisis is caused by
greenhouse gas emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. Superstorms, floods and drought have hurt countless New
Yorkers. New York will face massive population dislocation due to rising sea levels, food shortages from dying oceans,
agricultural disruption, and economic devastation to communities throughout our state. If there is any hope in diverting
the worst climate impacts, the world must stop burning fossil fuels and transition to a renewable energy economy NOW.

The central goal of the December 2015 Paris Climate Agreement was to keep the global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees
Celsius. In order to accomplish this, 80% of all known fossil fuel reserves must be kept in the ground. However, the
Trump administration plans to push pro-fuel policies that bring us closer to climate disaster. The fossil fuel
industry knows that its days are numbered, as the world economy moves rapidly toward a renewable energy future.
Current fossil fuel development will lead to stranded assets, and the significant devaluation of fossil fuel stocks.

New York and other states must take the lead in fighting global warming and divestment is a winning strategy.
Already, over 700 institutions throughout the world -- including governments, schools, religious institutions and
individuals -- have pledged to divest more than $5 trillion from the fossil fuel industry. Since 350.org first proposed
divesting the New York State Common Retirement Fund from fossil fuels 4 years ago, the decision not to divest has cost the fund
at least $5.3 billion, according to a report from Corporate Knights, an investment research company.

It is fiscally irresponsible to invest in fossil fuels. In addition, it is morally inexcusable to invest in the continued
disruption of our economy and our environment caused by climate change. Superstorm Sandy and other extreme
weather events have already cost New Yorkers billions of dollars. These costs must be included in the cost of investing in
a fossil fuel economy.

We therefore call on the legislature to immediately pass the Fossil Fuel Divestment Act to protect our communities from
climate disaster. Divestment is a moral and financial imperative for the long-term survival of the climate, economy, and
communities of the state.

(7).

v ‘

Sincerely,

Aaron Major

President, UUP Albany Chapter

Scanned with CamScanner
POLICE CONFERENCE Of New York, Inc.

Union of Police Officers

Executive Offices: 11 North Pearl Street—Suite 1000, Albany, New York 12207
Tel. (518) 463-3283 FAX. (518) 463-2488 WWW. PCNny.Org

Founded in 1925

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION

An act to amend the Retirement and Social Security Law in relation to limitations on investments of public pension funds.

$2126 - Introduced by Senator Krueger
A1536 — Introduced by Assemblyman Ortiz

The Police Conference of New York. Inc. is a state-wide labor union consisting of more than 216 member local PBAs representing
more than 25,000 police officers throughout the State of New York. We write in opposition to this proposed legislation to amend
the Retirement and Social Security Law to require the Comptroller of the State of New York to divest the funds under his control
from the stocks of any of the 200 largest publicly traded fossil fuel companies as an unlawful impairment and diminution of the
benefits of membership in the New York State Retirement System and an unlawful incursion on the sanctity of the Comptroller’s
independence and autonomy over the funds of the Retirement System.

Article V, Section 7 of the New York State Constitution prohibits any diminution or impairment of the benefits of membership in
the New York State Retirement System. New York Law is clear that any attempt by the legislature to direct the Comptroller in his
investment of the funds of the New York State Retirement System under his control violates Article V, Section 7 of the State
Constitution. In Sgaglione v. Levitt, 37 NY2d 507 (1975) the legislature attempted to require then Comptroller Author Levitt to
purchase $125,000,000 in the Municipal Assistance Corporation for the City of New York (MAC bonds). This organization
challenged that statute as a violation of Article V, Section 7. In upholding the PCNY’s challenge of the statute in question, the

court stated as follows:

~...it is nevertheless concluded that the legislature is powerless in the face of the
constitutional non-impairment clause to mandate that he [the Comptroller] mindlessly
invest in whatever securities they direct, good, indifferent, or bad. The ultimate difference
is between authority to invest and a mandatory direction to invest in certain securities and
in certain minimum amounts, whether or not the State Comptroller deems it advisable.”

The legislature next attempted to direct the Comptroller in his management of the funds of the Retirement Systems in McDermott
v. Regan, 82 NY2d 354 (1993). This organization, among others, brought legal challenge to Chapter 210 of the Laws of 1990
which would have required the Comptroller to change the funding method for the New York State Retirement Systems from an
Aggregate Cost (AC) method to a Projected Unit Credit (PUC) method on the grounds that it violated Article V, Section 7 of the
New York State Constitution by diminishing or impairing the benefits of membership in the New York State Pension System. The
court agreed, citing Sgaglione v. Levitt in support of its decision and struck down Section 210 of the Laws of 1990.

This bill suffers from the same legal infirmities that resulted in the Court’s striking down the MAC legislation in Sgaglione v.
Levitt and the PUC legislation in McDermott v. Regan and should therefore be disapproved. If this legislation should become
law, then this organization will immediately file suit to defend the autonomy and independence of the New York State

Comptroller as it did in Sgaglione v. Levitt and McDermott v. Regan.

Dated: March 18. 2019
Respectfully submitted,

Richard Wells, President
Police Conference of New York, Inc.

AFFILIATED WITH:
National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO)
NYS Public Employee Conference (PEC)

Scanned with CamScanner
LENZ

NORTH FORK
LONG ISLAND

Tuesday, May 28*", 2019

John C. Liu

Senator, 11" District (Queens)
LOB 802

Albany, NY 12247

liu@nysenate.gov

RE: Opposition to A5028/S2129 (Expansion of NY Bottle Bill) and A3208/S5117 (Lowering of BAC Limit)

Dear Senator John C. Liu,

lam writing to express my strong opposition to two bills currently under consideration in Albany. |
believe that, if enacted, both bills will have a seriously adverse effect on the economics and even the
viability of my winery. They would also significantly undermine the very positive efforts made over the
years by both the Governor and the Legislature to support the growth of New York’s wine industry.

First, lam very concerned about the proposal to include wine on the list of beverages subject to New
York’s bottle deposit program. Doing so would impose major physical, financial and administrative
burdens on all of New York’s small wineries that have neither the space nor the resources to comply
with such a program. And given that wine bottles are such a small part of the waste stream (estimated
at just a small fraction of one percent), the added costs to both producers and consumers, as well as the
considerable inconvenience for consumers compared to much more efficient roadside collection
systems clearly outweighs the intended benefits of the proposed expansion.

PO BOX 28 PECONIC, NY 11958 631.734.6010

Scanned with CamScanner
MACARI

VINEYARDS

NOR HK -ORK OF LONG ISLAND, NEW YO U4

May 28, 2019

The Honorable John C. Liu
Senator, 11" District (Queens)
LOB 802

Albany, NY 12247

RE: Opposition to A5028/S2129 (Expansion of NY Bottle Bill) and A3208/S5117 (Lowering of BAC Limit)
Dear Senator John C. Liu,

| am writing to express my strong opposition to two bills currently under consideration in Albany. | believe that, if
enacted, both bills would have a seriously adverse impact on the viability of my winery and significantly undermine
the tremendous efforts made by both the Governor and Legislature over the years to support the growth of New
York’s wine industry.

First, | am very concerned about the proposal to include wine on the list of beverages subject to New York’s bottle
deposit program. Doing so would impose major physical, financial and administrative burdens on all of New York’s
small wineries that have neither the space nor the resources to comply with such a program. And given that wine
bottles are such a small part of the waste stream (estimated at only 1/3 of one percent), the added costs to both
producers and consumers, as well as the considerable inconvenience for consumers compared to much more
efficient roadside collection systems clearly outweigh the intended benefits of the proposed expansion.

Second, | am also very much opposed to the proposal to reduce the legal Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) from .08 to
.05. Our industry has always been extremely conscious of and concerned about the danger posed by drivers under
the influence, which is why we invest in programs such as TIPs to ensure that our employees are well trained to
reduce those risks. But we question why there is now a move to make New York one of only two states with such a
low legal BAC, especially since our state currently ranks second to last in per capita alcohol-related traffic deaths and
nearly 92% of such fatalities are caused by someone with a BAC of .10 or above. Reducing the BAC will thus have
minimal impact on the problem while punishing responsible behavior of both consumers and craft beverage
producers. We find this bill to be in direct conflict with the state’s clear recognition of the importance of agritourism
to local economies and the key role of tasting rooms in generating that traffic.

| appreciate everything you have done in the past to support our industry and facilitate its growth over the recent
past, but | must now ask that you not undercut all the progress that has been made by introducing new cost burdens

and impediments to marketing our products.

Respectfully,

Alexandra Macari

Macari Vineyards

P.O. Box 2, 150 Bergen Avenue
Mattituck, NY 11952

Scanned with CamScanner
T'JARA

VINEYARDS

May 30, 2019

The Honorable John C. Liu
Senator, 11" District (Queens)
LOB 802

Albany, NY 12247
liu@nysenate.gov

RE: Opposition to A5028/S2129 (Expansion of NY Bottle Bill) and A3208/S5117 (Lowering of BAC Limit)

Dear Senator Liu,

lam writing to express my strong opposition to two bills currently under consideration in Albany. | believe that, if
enacted, both bills would have an impactful and adverse effect on the viability of my winery and significantly
undermine the tremendous efforts made by both the Governor and Legislature over the years to support the
growth of New York’s wine industry.

First, | am very concerned about the proposal to include wine on the list of beverages subject to New York’s bottle
deposit program. Doing so would impose major physical, financial, and administrative burdens on all of New York’s
small wineries (of which | am one) that have neither the space nor the resources to comply with such a program.
And given that wine bottles are such a small part of the waste stream (estimated at only 1/3 of one percent), the
added costs to both producers and consumers, as well as the considerable inconvenience for consumers compared
to much more efficient roadside collection systems clearly outweigh the intended benefits of the proposed
expansion.

Second, | am opposed to the proposal to reduce the legal Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) from .08 to .0S. Our industry
has always been extremely conscious of and concerned about the danger posed by drivers under the influence,
which is why we invest in programs such as TIPs to ensure that our employees are well trained to reduce those risks.
But we question why there is now a move to make New York one of only two states with such a low legal BAC,
especially since our state currently ranks second to last in per capita alcohol-related traffic deaths and nearly 92% of
such fatalities are caused by someone with a BAC of .10 or above. Reducing the BAC will have minimal impact on the
problem while punishing responsible behavior of both consumers and craft beverage producers. We find this bill to
be in direct conflict with the state’s clear recognition of the importance of agritourism to local economies and the
key role of tasting rooms in generating that traffic.

| appreciate everything you have done in the past to support our industry and facilitate its growth over the recent
past, but | must now ask that you not undercut all the progress that has been made by introducing new cost
burdens and impediments to marketing our products.

Respectfully,

Shelby Hearn
Director or Sales & Marketing

T' Jara Vineyards
35 Cox Neck Rd, Mattituck , NY
tjaravineyards.com
(631) 603-8127

Scanned with CamScanner
